OPEN APARTMENT DOORS SPARK NEIGHBOR DISPUTES AS VIETNAM EMBRACES HIGH-RISE LIVING

Just weeks after moving into a luxury apartment in Thu Duc City, Ho Chi Minh City, 47-year-old Thu Ha received three warnings from the building management, including one for leaving her front door open.
Used to living in a landed home, Ha often kept the door open for ventilation and saw nothing wrong with the habit. "Yet one day, after I left the door open for just a few minutes, security guards came up to remind me to close it," she says.
Her experience highlights a growing trend in apartment complexes that discourage or ban open doors to reduce noise, cooking odors, wandering pets and children, and privacy concerns.
Being forced to keep her door closed all day made Ha uncomfortable. She insisted she had no intention of stealing cool air from the hallway air conditioning. When she shared her story on social media, more than half of the commenters disagreed with her.
The debate over whether to leave apartment doors open represents pushback by people who view a closed door as important for privacy, civility, and safety.
But this is increasingly becoming a source of conflict as millions of Vietnamese transition from landed homes to apartments, with multiple families sharing hallways and common spaces.
Le Thanh Mai, 38, who lives in an apartment complex in Tu Liem Ward, Hanoi, says strict rules on keeping doors closed leave families with young children short of space.
Besides, opening doors to allow fresh air in or casual chats with neighbors is a communal living tradition and should not be prohibited.
But Thu Phuong, 47, bought an apartment in Tay Mo Ward, Hanoi, precisely because the building prohibits open doors, which, for her, keeps hallways free of cooking odors and noise, the minimum requirements for a premium residential complex.
Phuong once got into a heated argument with a neighbor whose family regularly left their door ajar while cooking, letting food smells drift into her apartment.
When confronted, the neighbor retorted: "If you get the smell, go buy a door draft stopper."
After being warned multiple times by the building management, that family eventually moved away.
Living in another high-end complex in Yen Hoa Ward, Phuong Trang, 31, has repeatedly complained about neighbors leaving doors open for their children to run around in the hallway late at night or pets to cause disturbances.
"Our building rules strictly forbid leaving doors open for extended periods, especially while cooking," she says.
But because the hallways lack security cameras, guards only issue reminders or warning notices when complaints are filed.
Formal fines have yet to be enforced as they have not been approved at the apartment owners' General Meeting.
A VnExpress survey of 5,000 readers found opinions nearly split, with 55% describing the practice as impolite and 45% considering it acceptable.
For building managements, open doors represent a major operational headache.
Tran Thi Hoa, who works for a building management board in Long Bien Ward, Hanoi, says complaints about "open-door neighbors" account for 10% of the total number, spiking during the summer.
To address the issue, the complex has a tiered penalty system: an initial warning for the first offense, suspension of building services after a second time, and a VND450,000 (US$18) fine for the third.
A survey of apartment buildings in Hanoi and HCMC found that a ban on keeping doors open was added following disputes.
Pham Van Chuong of property management firm PSE in Hanoi says many projects in Nam Tu Liem and Cau Giay districts in Hanoi and Thu Duc City and District 7 HCMC had to retroactively ban open doors after residents complained about odors, noise, and hallway encroachments.
He explains that these rules are crucial to ensuring fire safety standards.
"Modern apartment hallways are enclosed spaces equipped with fresh air supply, smoke extraction, and emergency evacuation systems. In the event of a fire, leaving an apartment door open could allow smoke to spread rapidly, neutralizing the building's pressurization and smoke-prevention systems."
Pham Xuan Diep, secretary of the Hanoi Apartment Management Association, points to building designs as the root cause of conflicts.
In high-grade projects, entrance doors are staggered and not dense so that, even when left open, they have a minimal impact on neighbors, he said.
But, in some places, large numbers of doors and directly facing each other across narrow hallways mean opening a door immediately affects the opposite unit, he said.
"In an apartment complex, not everything inside your unit is purely private property, and not everything out in the hallway belongs to the public."
Smoke detectors and fire sprinklers inside an apartment are part of the building's common fire safety system. Meanwhile, the water meter located in the hallway is the private property of each unit.
According to Hanoi lawyer Le Hong Hien, while apartment owners have the right to open or close their doors according to their needs, they must not infringe upon the interests of others as stated in the Civil Code. The 2023 Law on Housing and Circular 05/2024 issued by the Ministry of Construction also outline specific conditions for apartment users.
If keeping a door open spreads odors, generates noise, or interferes with common building systems, the management reserves the right to tell those residents to stop their behavior.
But any ban is legally binding only when approved through proper official procedures, and management boards must publicly disclose both the legal and technical rationale before incorporating such restrictions, he adds.
Kim, Phuong Trang’s South Korean husband who has lived in Hanoi for many years, says 20 years ago, apartment culture in his home country was similarly open and neighbor-friendly.
But with urbanization, private space became the top priority, he says.
Since moving to Vietnam, he and his foreign friends have had to relocate multiple times due to neighbors habitually leaving their doors open, he says. "Vietnam will likely follow a similar trajectory. This shift doesn't necessarily mean people are becoming more selfish; rather, they are placing a higher premium on privacy and quality of life."
Chuong also expects restrictions on open doors to become increasingly commonplace with tightening fire safety regulations and building operation standards, and a growing desire for privacy. "Establishing clear rules right from the property handover stage is key to balancing individual rights with public safety.

THE HIDDEN FRUSTRATIONS OF APARTMENT LIVING

From unwanted noise and lingering food odors to the constant fear of an elevator breakdown, apartment occupants face a steady stream of frustrations.
Minh Hoa, 37, says: "I initially bought my current place for its windows, but have rarely drawn the curtains open the last three years".
This was caused by the many times he caught his neighbor across the street half-clad through their window, which made him afraid he might himself become a target for peeping Toms.
But he has been unable to escape the smells.
Every day around dinner time his entire floor is filled with a mixture of odors. By now he knows all his neighbors’ go-to dishes: The next-door family always seasons its food with first-press fish sauce, the old couple across the hall usually cook Chinese herbal medicine and the young couple in the corner flat tend to grill dried squid for midnight snacks.
The worst nuisance has been auditory. Last year he was deeply distressed by his downstairs neighbors constantly coming to his door to complain about noise from his house. Some even tagged him in the resident chat group at 1 a.m. one time, demanding that his family keeps quiet although everyone was already fast asleep by then.
He has had to cover his living room floor with foam mats and ask his children to keep their voices down after 9 p.m.
Hoang Thu Thuy, 32, suffers from similar anxieties. She used to wear a mask whenever she went out of her house to avoid an elderly neighbor living below, who believed that her boisterous young sons had disrupted his peace.
She later learned the real grievance was not her children but the sound of water trickling through pipes late at night, which kept the old man awake. Her family has stopped taking late-night showers ever since.
The usual layout of apartment buildings, with long, narrow hallways and closely spaced units, can also lead to awkward mix-ups. Thuy almost tried to open her neighbor’s door once, mistaking it for her own house after stepping out of the elevator.
Another time her husband carried inside a pack of beef he found hanging on their door handle, assuming she had ordered it.
In reality, a shipper had confused their apartment with their neighbor’s. It meant Thuy to pay her neighbors for two kilograms of beef that her family, as she puts it, "might never finish."
Beyond neighborly friction, many people also feel a growing disillusionment with the true extent of their home ownership.
In late 2024 Nguyen Thanh Tuan, 29, was stopped by security while carrying his furniture into the lobby for moving into his new flat.
He had been unaware and was informed then that he could not proceed without a moving permit. It meant he was forced him to spend a night in the hallway, standing guard over his belongings, until the management office opened the following morning.
He laments: "I have to ask for [the management’s] permission for everything from hanging a painting to cleaning the sofa. At first I was rather shocked that the decisions concerning my own home were not mine alone to make".
But the greatest fear high-rise residents have is infrastructure failure.
Minh Tu, 32, is still frustrated when she recalls the nights she was woken up by fire alarms only to find out they were false.
Another not-so-fond memory of hers is the severe flooding in late September, when electricity and water were cut off for five days. Each time she walked up 26 floors carrying water and groceries through a foul-smelling staircase used for discarding trash, she felt she was being pushed to her absolute physical and mental limits.
These stories are merely snapshots of the lives led by millions of urban dwellers.
According to the Ministry of Construction, there are over 4,000 apartment complexes nationwide, many fully occupied. So many people living cheek by jowl inevitably causes conflict.
In Ho Chi Minh City, the 1022 portal received over 11,000 noise complaints in 2024, most between 6 p.m.and 10 p.m.
Nguyen Duy Thành, who has 11 years of experience in building management, identifies four classic causes of disputes: noise, smell, spatial encroachment, and pets.
He once saw a young couple almost break up after cigarette butts started appearing mysteriously on their balcony. Neither of them were smokers and so the man suspected his wife of infidelity.
An investigation eventually revealed that the butts were being flicked down by a man smoking on a higher floor and swept by the wind there.
In another instance, a resident watering plants on their balcony accidentally wetted a neighbor's laundry, leading to a formal complaint demanding a "ban on watering plants during business hours."
A third involved a family whose frequent use of fish sauce for cooking sent pungent smells through the ventilation system, prompting a neighbor to petition for a "ban on cooking fish sauce within the building"
"Don't assume that luxury co-living spaces are free of such nuisances," Thanh warns.
If in lower-priced apartments the disputes are over parking spaces, in high-end condos it is a battle over amenities or the attitude shown by the reception staff.
Many western countries have stringent regulations for apartment dwellers. In Germany, the Ruhezeit law strictly prohibits noise between 10 p.m. and 6 a.m. and on Sundays. A simple act like running a washing machine or disposing of glass bottles during those restricted hours can result in fines of up to €50,000 (US$ 59,000) or the termination of a lease.
Switzerland follows the Hausordnung rules, which ban draining bathtubs or walking in high heels after 10 p.m. Even lunchtime is considered sacrosanct. Meanwhile some New York buildings require most floors to be carpeted to reduce sound, with eviction possible for disruptive behavior.
"Co-living teaches people empathy," Thanh concludes. "A civilized community isn't one without disputes; it's one where residents agree to set aside their ego for the sake of the collective".

HCMC APARTMENT PRICES RISE 11.8% IN Q1

Average apartment prices in central HCMC rose by 11.8% year-on-year in the first quarter, reaching a record VND107 million (US$4,060) per square meter, according to property consultancy Knight Frank.
Across HCMC, which includes the former Binh Duong and Ba Ria-Vung Tau provinces after the merger last July, prices averaged VND97 million (US$3,680).
The appreciation in prices has been largely driven by the dominance of high-end segments and the impact of infrastructure development.
In central HCMC, only around 820 units hit the primary market, nearly 90% in the high-end and luxury segments.
Even in Binh Duong and Ba Ria–Vung Tau, which were merged into HCMC in July last year, prices have risen to VND60 million per square meter in the primary market. There is little supply at below VND40 million here.
These areas have added supply in the mid-range and affordable segments, contributing to price disparities across the city but not enough to bring down the overall average.
Infrastructure development has also been a factor. The rollout of numerous transport projects has improved connectivity, enhancing real estate value.
However, the rising prices are affecting liquidity. Knight Frank said the number transactions in the first quarter exceeded 5,000 units, up 129% year-on-year but down 66% compared to Q4 2025.
The transactions have mainly taken place at projects offering interest subsidies for three to five years, extended payment schedules or high discounts.
Alex Crane, managing director of Knight Frank Vietnam, said the upward trend in apartment prices reflects a structural shift in the market.
As inner-city land becomes increasingly scarce and expensive and development costs continue to rise, new supply perforce has to be at the high end, he explained. "The upward trend in apartment prices in HCMC will persist as new supply continues to be skewed toward the high-end segment."
From now through 2027 HCMC is expected to add around 50,000 new apartments, mostly in the high-priced segments with affordable housing shifting to suburban areas.

HCMC NON-APARTMENT HOUSING PRICES DIP AS BUYERS TURN CAUTIOUS

HCMC housing prices are dipping by up to 10% amid weak demand, with many people seeking to sell struggling even after months of listing.
After more than five months of trying to sell his 40-square meter house in an alley in Tan Binh Ward, Minh recently sold it for VND6.9 billion (US$262,000) after reducing his price by 8%.
He says: "Lots of people came to see the house, but most offered prices below my expectations. If I had kept the old price, it would have been very difficult to sell."
Others are unable to sell for an even longer period. The owner of an 85-square-meter house in An Hoi Dong Ward said the property had been listed for sale since the middle of last year at VND11 billion.
Many people viewed the house, but most were only willing to pay VND7-8 billion. The owner has lowered the price to around VND10 billion, but has still not found a buyer.
Brokers in HCMC said it has been a common occurrence this year, with sellers lowering prices for high-value shophouses and other private homes amid a liquidity slump, but still being unable to attract buyers.
Listing data reviewed by VnExpress also shows that the prices of private houses are being lowered in many places in HCMC.
In central and areas and nearby, prices have fallen by about 3-8% from the beginning of the year, with some areas seeing declines of more than 10%. More outlying areas have seen sharper falls of 5-12%.
The shophouse segment has seen a similar trend, with prices in inner-city and outlying areas falling by 5-10% and 6-8%.
Data from property listing platform Batdongsan shows the price decline becoming more evident in the second quarter.
Average asking price for shophouse in HCMC fell 8% from late last year to VND197 million per square meter. Single-family house prices fell by 3.4% to VND116 million.
Ha Quang Vy, a veteran shophouse broker, says the slowdown in the market liquidity is affecting these two segments.
As transactions slow, buyers no longer rush to make payments as they did during the price boom, when they feared missing out on the action, he explains.
Now they carefully survey the market, comparing options and negotiating before making decisions, he adds.
The high bank mortgage interest rates, which has sharply reduced demand for leverage, has also weakened demand.
Pham Ngoc Huyen, head of a property brokerage in HCMC, says prices of private houses and shophouses often depend on homeowners’ expectations and local valuation levels than on clear benchmarks.
In recent years, the segments appreciated rapidly in value thanks to a preference for properties with land and a spillover effect from rising apartment prices, causing price levels to exceed affordability of genuine homebuyers. Besides, the rental yield on private houses and shophouses has declined to just 2%.
From the demand perspective, Dinh Minh Tuan, southern regional director of Batdongsan, says the private house segment is being strongly affected by changing homebuying behavior, especially among younger buyers.
While owning inner-city landed property was once considered a top priority, buyers now increasingly prioritize quality of life, financial balance, and access to amenities.
Many prefer an apartment in non-central areas if they have infrastructure, parking, green space, and a full range of amenities instead of a house deep inside an inner-city alley.
But analysts think this is temporary and as inner-city land becomes increasingly scarce and high-rise developments face tighter restrictions, properties in good locations and with proper legal status will beat the broader market for demand.

RISING MORTGAGE INTEREST RATES CAUSE SELLOFF IN APARTMENT MARKET

Apartment owners are trying to sell out due to high loan interest rates but many are finding it hard to find buyers as prices flatline.
Quoc Tuan is listing his two-bedroom apartment in the eastern part of in HCMC. He had bought the VND4.5-billion apartment at the end of 2023 with a bank loan funding 60% of the cost.
The loan interest rate had been 7% in the first year but rose to 11% last October and to 15% earlier this year. His monthly mortgage payment has doubled as a result from VND16 million to VND33 million and become a burden.
He is now looking to sell the property for VND5 billion, but has difficulty finding a buyer. "If it does not sell, I will have to go down to the original price to avoid further losses."
Tran Van Phuc, also in HCMC, bought a VND8 billion apartment in early 2025, borrowing 40% from a bank for 20 years.
In the first year he paid around VND34 million a month toward principal and interest when the interest rate was a subsidized 8.5%.
At the end of the subsidy period it switched to a market-based floating rate of 15%, and his monthly payment rose to nearly VND50 million.
He says he risks default if he continues to bear this enormous burden for a few more months. "Even if I have to sell the apartment at cost price or a loss, I will do it."
Many investors who bought apartments during the low-interest-rate period are facing similar pressure as rates spiral upward.
Brokers say buyers who are willing to pay quickly can get discounts of up to 15% as people seek to sell apartments as soon as possible.
On social media property groups, sellers are bringing prices down by 10–12% compared to listed market levels.
Mortgage interest rates at many banks are currently at 9.5–14%, while floating rates can reach 15–16%.
Data from property portal Batdongsan shows inquiry for property purchases began to decline in the final two months of 2025 as interest rates showed signs of rising, with a drop of 17–20% month-on-month. The trend continued in January, when searches fell by a further 28%.
In a recent note credit rating agency FiinRatings said rising mortgage interest rates have become one of the major risks facing the real estate market.
Mortgages account for a substantial share of the credit portfolios of many banks, most of them given during the low-interest-rate period between 2023 and 2025, when rates remained steady at around 8% for up to 24 months.
When loans shift to floating rates of around 13–15% per year, borrowers’ repayment obligations can increase sharply.
If interest rates remain at these elevated levels for any length of time, the threat of bad debts will loom over the banking system.
Le Quoc Kien, an independent real estate consultant, says financial pressure is most felt by people who borrowed in 2023-2025 as the interest rate subsidy and principal grace period have ended.
The latter means borrowers now also have to pay principal, causing monthly obligations to double.
From a market perspective, Vo Huynh Tuan Kiet, director of residential markets at CBRE Vietnam, says the most affected assets are highly speculative but low-liquidity properties with limited rental cash flow such as resort real estate, condotels, beachfront shophouses, and suburban lands.
Highly leveraged investors who borrowed 50–70% of the property’s value are particularly affected, he points out.
He expects the pressure to intensify in the second half of this year when many loans signed at the end of 2024 enter their floating-rate phase.
This will accelerate a market shakeout, forcing highly leveraged investors to exit and creating opportunities for long-term capital to acquire assets at deep discounts, he adds.