[001] Morning
 
1. Do you usually do the same things in the mornings?
As I'm a creature of habit, I would say yes. I always get up at 6:00 am, have noodles and tea for breakfast, brush my teeth, then brush up (quickly study) on what we learned the day before in class to make sure I'm well-prepared. After all of this, I start heading to class at 8:30 AM. However, on weekends, I tend to hit the snooze button and end up sleeping till 9:00 AM then start my day.

2. Do you think breakfast is important?
Absolutely. Many experts say that it is the most important meal of the day. I believe it gives me the fuel I need to tackle my day (to trongly take on the day). Moreover, I think it's critical to have a balanced breakfast to make sure I get all the proper nutrients. I cannot imagine starting my day on an empty stomach!

3. Did you do the same morning routines in your early ages?
Yes, pretty much! As I've always been a scholarly person, I've always had the motivation to get myself up earlier than expected to have a balanced breakfast and prepare myself for the day ahead of me. However, I used to have more of a sweet tooth (a person who lives sweets) as a child, so I used to munch on (eat) some sweet bread instead of noodles.

4. Do you want to change your daily routines in the future?
I think it's inevitable since I'll soon be joining the workforce! I want to keep my organized, prepared habits, but I hope to sleep in a bit more in the future. I would like to at least sleep 30 minutes to an hour later, and not have to spend as much time preparing for my day. Furthermore, I hope to have my own car instead of taking a Grab every morning.

[002] Study time
 
1. What can you do to improve your learning efficiency?
Hmm, I would say that meditation and physical exercise can certainly be of help. I believe that meditation can help you to become more aware of yourself and find your center of concentration. Furthermore, exercise releases tension and brings you back to focus. When I feel overwhelmed with my studies, I often take a break to go work out at the gym then afterwards feel more productive.

2. Do you prefer to study in the morning or in the evening?
Definitely the evening. When I have an exam the next morning, I feel that the information stays with me much more clearly when I cram (study at the last minute) the evening before. When I try to study in the morning, I often feel rushed or cannot stay focused, as I know all my daily tasks are awaiting me.

3. What time do you like to study?
Around dinnertime after I've finished all my tasks for the day; I feel most at ease at this time. When I study right before bed, I tend to even dream of that information, helping me to remember clearly for that exam.

4. Why do people find it difficult to focus on studying?
Well, for one, studying isn't something enjoyable for many people, so it's hard to concentrate on something you dislike. Moreover, it's difficult with all of the distractions of today- such as texting, instagram, facebook, etc. Lastly, some people become preoccupied with other tasks they need to do, such as cleaning or cooking.

5. Do you like to study alone or with your friends?
Both can be nice. But, I tend to be more efficient when I study alone. Sometimes when I study with friends, we get off topic and don't get much done. However, it is effective to quiz each other. So all in all, there are benefits to both.
 
[003] Plants
 
1. Do you like plants?
Frankly speaking, I'm quite drawn by plants and vegetation in general. I often find myself wandering about in the parks gazing aimlessly at the flowerbeds and enjoy the aroma that some beautiful flowers give off.

2. Do you think plants can be a good gift?
Definitely, plants usually feature in many occasions from casual birthdays to more formal dinners. It's common to bring a bunch of newly picked flowers or a bouquet of flowers to the host family.

3. Can you grow plants? Do you know anything about growing a plant?
I don't have a knack for gardening, so it's quite over my head when it comes to growing certain types of plants. My mother often takes care of this instead.

4. Do you keep plants at home?
Yes, I do. I mean I keep lily in my bedroom and I also plant some vegetables like cucumber, onions and tomatoes in the balcony. Now you can see everything covered in green.

[004] Films
 
1. Do you like watch films?
Absolutely! They are an excellent way to unwind (relax; free your mind). Moreover, my friends are reallt into films, so it's a fun, relaxing way to spend time together. Afterwards, we discuss and debate the film that we have just watched. Apart from just relaxing and enjoying the film, I like to delve deeper (get to the deeper meaning) to discover the subliminal messages.

2. What kinds of movies do you like best?
Well, I would say I'm still a kid at heart (a person who still feels like a child in their heart), so I really enjoy watching kids' movies. Although they seem simple and innocent, there are often many life lessons packed into these films. Moreover, I'm really into drama and historical movies. When I watch these, I feel that I can more deeply understand human emotions and re-live historical moments, like the Vietnam-America War or World War II.

3. Do you prefer foreign films or films made in your country?
Since my country doesn't have a huge film industry, I've always been really into American films. Not to knock (to insult; discredit) other film industries, but American ones are incredibly entertaining and well-made; the evolution of film continues to amaze me. Moreover, I only watch films in English so it helps me to learn new slang and expressions.

4. How often do you watch films?
Well, I am quite a busy bee (a busy person), but I manage to see about one or two films a week at home. After a long day of studying, I love snuggling up (getting comfortable with blankets) on the sofa and watching a film to unwind. I tend to do this on Friday and Sunday evenings with my friends.

5. How often do you go to a cinema to watch a movie?
Not too often actually. As the prices in my country are quite high, I usually opt to (choose) watch a movie at home instead to save on costs. Actually, I think it's kind of a waste of money to see a movie at a cinema when you can watch it from the comfort of your living room. I only go when a friend invites me, which is maybe 4 times a year.

6. Do people in your country like to go to a cinema to watch a film?
I would say so. Since people like to go out with their families on the weekends, this is often an activity that they would choose. Moreover, teenagers enjoy this activity as a way to get out of the house. Furthermore, it's often a popular date option for many people!

7. What was the first film that you watched?
Hmm it's hard to say the first, but I think it was the Lion King. I know it first came out in the early 90's when I was a child. It was my absolute favorite- I used to watch it repeatedly until my parents were really tired of it! I even built "pride rock" out of rocks that I found when we would go to visit my relatives who have a garden.

8. Do you like to watch movies alone or with your friends?
Both! On one hand, I find it extremely relaxing to chill out and fall asleep to a film by myself, but it's also enjoyable to have company. So, all in all, I prefer films with friends, since they are also into film. Afterwards, we can discuss the meaning and carry on inside jokes (jokes among friends) from quotes from the film later on!

9. Would you like to be in a movie?
Not one bit! As I have stage fright (fear of being on stage), I would never have the guts (never be brave enough to) to do it. Secondly, I feel awkward when I try to act and I have the memory of a goldfish (short memory) so I know I could never memorize my lines! All in all, acting is simply not my thing.

[005] Spare time/Hobbies

1. Do you have any hobbies?
Of course! My number one hobby is playing golf. Actually, my entire family, grandparents included, are really into golf. Ever since I was a child, my father used to take me to the driving range (the place to practice hitting golf balls) with him to practice. This planted the seed of interest for me. Now we all play together as a family, and actually I beat them all most of the time!

2. What do you do when you have free time?
My favorite things to do are play golf and see my friends and family. My top priority is spending time with those I love- and luckily most of us share the common interest of golf. For those who don't like golf, I enjoy spending time eating or at a coffeeshop together.

3. What free time activities are popular with people in your country?
As most countries in the world, soccer is quite popular. Furthermore, people tend to enjoy playing cricket and drinking tea with one another. Nowadays, backpacking across Southeast Asia is becoming quite popular too!

4. What do you usually do after work or classes?
Since I have an exhausting day in the office, I don't like to stay sedentary all day. I usually hit the gym and go to the driving range after work almost every single day. If I go straight home, I become glued to (attached to) the couch (another word for sofa) and don't do anything worthwhile.

5. Do you prefer staying at home or going out during evenings?
As I'm an extroverted, active person, I'd definitely rather hit the town (go out). I really enjoy going out with my college and golf mates fore some beers every weekend. Moreover, I always dedicate Sunday to my family. We usually have a lunch and tea time at my grandmother's house.

6. What free-time activities would you like to try in the future?
Lately I've had a growing interest in yoga and meditation. Some of my friends and family have recently gotten involved in it, and I see that it helps them maintain their calm regardless of the chaos around them. Furthermore, it improves balance, coordination, and body toning. I think it could benefit me, as I have a stressful office job.

7. Do you like to spend your free time with families or friends?
It's equal! I need both. However, family will always be my number one priority. Unlike some people, I always let loose and have fun with my family. On the other hand, I really enjoy spending time with my friends and discussing topics that would be inappropriate in front of family members.
 
[006] Saving Money
 
1. Is money important to you?
So-so. To be honest, money can help your life. As I know I'm a person who likes traveling abroad, I know I must have a high-paying job to be able to attain this lifestyle. When I have this freedom to have new experiences, I feel a lot happier. So, because of this I'd say money matters to me.

2. How do you save money?
I think it's always important to have a certain number in mind. I think of a goal amount to save each month and pretend as if I don't have it. This has been a huge success for me. With these savings, I've been able to take my dream vacations and buy nice gifts for my family.

3. Did you save money when you were young?
As I've always dreamt of traveling the world, I used to save money in a piggybank! Although these savings never amounted to anything substantial, maybe just some movie tickets or candy, I'm glad I did it as a way to teach myself to save. I'll never forget how sad I felt when we broke the piggy-bank!

4. Why do people save money?
Various reasons! I think the main reasons are to have a safety blanket in case emergencies or unexpected costs arise, such as a flat tire or a broken hot water heater, or to save for a vacation or something specific that they would like to buy. Moreover, many parents are focused on saving for their children's schooling and college later on.

5. Have you ever given money to the children?
Certainly! Although I don't have any children of my own yet, I like to slip a 20 dollar bill into birthday cards for my young nieces and nephews. Furthermore, when I've traveled, I often buy things from children selling on the streets.
 
[007] Foreign food
 
1. Have you ever tried foreign food?
Of course! Since Germany welcomes many immigrants and refugees, we embrace a multi-cultural cuisine. Since there are many with Turkish roots living here, we are huge fans of kebab. Moreover, we enjoy many asian cuisines, especially Vietnamese, since there is a large Vietnamese community living here.

2. Do you like to try new food?
Absolutely! I think it adds color to our live and tastebuds (part on our tongue that controls taste). As I'm a big foodie, I'm always open to trying new cuisines. I've never been very fearful nor picky when it comes to trying new foods. Even sometimes the scariest looking dishes I've tried have ended up being delicious, such as sheep head soup in Peru and tarantula in Cambodia.

3. How often did you eat foreign food when you were young?
Since my father is of Turkish decent where my mother is German, we have always had a fusion (mixture) of cuisines in my home. Furthermore, my father only eats halal meat, so we would often go Middle Eastern or Indian restaurants to accommodate this. Moreover, my mother has always had a taste for Asian cuisines, so we have always incorporated Vietnamese, Chinese, Thai, etc foods into our eating habits as well.

4. Do you like any food from countries near yours?
Certainly! One of the things I like most about living in Europe is that each country has it's own unique cuisine. I really enjoy the waffles, chocolate, and beer from one of our neighbors, Belgium, as well as the one of a kind perogies (a traditional Polish dish) from Poland. All in all, I'd have to say that Mediterranean cuisines, especially Greek and Italian, foods are my favorite. There are few things that compare to those fresh ingredients and delicious olives!

5. Do people in your country like foreign food?
As Germany welcomes many immigrants into our country, I would say yes, since people have always been exposed to different types of food. In my experience, I see that all of the people in my circle embrace (to take advantage of) the unique variety of flavors that we have here in Berlin. To be honest, I don't know anyone who doesn't enjoy a juicy Doner kebab!

6. Will people eat more or less foreign food?
More! Since Germany continues to be one of the most desirable migration destinations in the world, I'm sure that even more foreign cuisines will be introduced into our country. Moreover, I think that the traditional German food may become a fusion with other popular cuisines here. I really look forward to this! I think that multi-cultural foods bring more culture and richness (diversity) to a place.
 
[008] Boredom
 
1. Do you ever get bored?
Of course! But recently I have been so lost in my medical school that I haven't really had time to feel bored. Since I work and study from sun up to sun down (all day), I embrace my downtime much more than I did when I was younger. Nowadays I really enjoy having time to unwind (relax after a long day) doing mindless activities, such as watching TV or reading a book.

2. What kinds of things are boring to you?
Museums and people who talk too much. I've never been a big fan of museums for some reason. I get extremely bored when everyone is in complete silence observing artifacts and reading information. When I travel, I much before to walk around and soak up (absorb) the local surroundings. On the other hand, I cannot stand people who talk my ear off (talk too much)! I lose focus and cannot wait to get away from them!

3. What will do when you feel bored?
I always call my mom! We have an extremely close relationship, so I know she is always just a phone call away. As she is also in the medical field and shares many similar interests with me, we always have endless things to talk about. Moreover, we both enjoy gossiping!

4. When you were young, what would you do if you felt bored?
When I was young, I would always venture (explore) outside when I was stuck in the house all day. It always kept me entertained to go outside and people watch (sit outside and observe people). Moreover, there was a small pond and park near my house, so I would often go there to play at the playground. The swings were always my first choice.
 
[009] Maps/Navigation
 
1. Do you use maps?
Well, I tend to (I usually) have a good sense of direction, so I prefer to use them only when there is no other option. I'd rather get directions from someone using landmarks, as I have a photographic memory (when you can easily remember images rather than words). However, when I find myself completely lost, especially in a foreign place, I will resort to (do as a last option) tourist maps or google maps.

2. How often do you use them?
I would say a few times a week. Since I don't usually go outside of my daily routine, I have no reason to use a map. When I get on my bicycle every day, I know every niche (every small detail) of my city. If I find myself lost, you can always rely on a stranger to help in my small town. 

3. What kind of maps do you use? Why is that?
For some reason paper maps just don't seem to click (make sense) in my mind. Because of this, I prefer google maps since they give me verbal instructions. I find this a lot easier to follow, as well as much safer especially when I'm driving. Furthermore, the estimated time and walking, biking, or driving option is super helpful.

4. How long have you been using them?
I've been using online maps for the past few years, and well, paper maps for my entire life. I followed my first paper map while driving when I was 16. I got so lost and ended up calling my father in tears (crying)! Since online maps and GPS, it has become much easier to get around.

5. Did you use paper maps before?
Oh, I can remember those days (an expression when talking fondly about the past)! The glove box(the place in front of your carseat to store things) in my car was full of maps and my father used to draw them for me when I was new to the road. Furthermore, even nowadays when I travel, I often stop by the tourist information desk and get a free map.

6. Have you ever asked somebody/passer-by for directions?
I believe that people will help you in most cases, so I certainly have. I know some people feel shy or maybe too proud to ask for help, but I'm not one of these. Although I've been rejected a few times, more times than not people have gone out of their way (put in a lot of effort to help you) to give me detailed directions with landmarks included to my destination.

7. What type of maps do people use the most nowadays? Why?
Google maps or other online maps/GPS have completely taken over (became popular). Nowadays, you don't even need to know where you're going. Since we have these modern day conveniences, less and less people are going through the hassle (inconvenience) of reading a paper map. Furthermore, since GPS and online maps are so popular, perhaps people are losing the skill to read and follow a map.
 
[010] Teachers
 
1. Do you like any teachers of yours?
There were a few teachers that I was particularly fond of. I'll tell you about my high school PE teacher, Mrs. Burrier. Since she knew I was painfully shy and especially clumsy (can easily trip or fall) when it comes to gym class, she allowed me to do the dance routine that she assigned to us in a private room only in front of her to save me from embarrassment. I so appreciated it!

2. Do you still keep in touch with your teacher?
I've lost contact with all elementary and middle school teachers, but I keep in touch with a couple university professors. As uni professors are allowed to have more of a relationship with students, it was easier to get to know them. My Spanish professor and I message back and forth every year to catch up.

3. Do you want to be a teacher?
As I'm not a patient person, I don't think teaching is for me. Furthermore, I dread (don't look forward to) the thought of standing in front of the classroom trying to get the class's attention while the children fool around (play). I think it takes a special person to be a teacher, and unfortunately I don't meet the criteria!

4. Do you remember your fav teach from primary school?
Of course! I'll tell you about my second grade teacher, Ms. Puleo. She was always kind, encouraging, and incredibly patient, even with us little rascals (slang for kids). I always felt a sense of warmth in her classroom, which the students responded well to. The world needs more teachers like her.

5. Did you pretend to be a teacher in the childhood?
Oh yes! I remember playing teacher with a small chalkboard my friend had at her house. I used to think it was so entertaining to be the teacher and give the class assignments to do; I usually focused on Math and Art. I loved pretending to give orders!

6. What qualities should a good teacher have?
Firstly, I think a teacher needs to be patient. Secondly, I think the teacher must be kind and encouraging, which creates a warm, open learning environment. I also think they should have interpersonal skills to be able to understand the needs of all different students. There are different kinds of teachers, but I would use this as rule of thumb (a general rule).
 