[011] Sports
 
🎧 Do you like to watch sports on TV?
🎧 Not at all! I despise (hate) it. I get extremely bored and disinterested. I usually try to avoid watching sports on TV at all costs unless it's an exciting event, like the World Cup or Super Bowl. In that case, I go for the social event rather than the game itself.
🎧 Do you play any sports?
🎧 Not anymore. I was an avid (enthusiastic) swimmer as a child, but I gave that up after high school, as it was quite time-consuming. Nowadays, I enjoy going to the gym, running around the lake by my house, and going on mountain treks. I'm not sure if these are considered sports, but I'm really into physical activity.
🎧 Which is the popular sports in your country?
🎧 Soccer of course! As soccer is the sport of the world, that would be number one. People go wild when our team wins a game- they even drive around waving flags, blocking off the streets! Apart from this, many people enjoy playing tennis and doing martial arts.
🎧 Who is your favorite sports star?
🎧 As I'm not a big sports fan, I don't really have one. However, I think I may like Cristiano Ronaldo. Although I don't know anything about him or his athletic abilities, I think I've always been drawn to him (attracted to) because of his looks.
🎧 What kinds of sports would you like to try in the future?
🎧 I'm really intrigued by soccer. I think it's something that can really connect people, as well as is good cardiovascular and coordination activity. Actually, I wish I had gotten into it as a child. I think it would be interesting to join a league in my city. 
 
[012] Boredom
 
1. Do you ever get bored?
Of course! But recently I have been so lost in my medical school that I haven't really had time to feel bored. Since I work and study from sun up to sun down (all day), I embrace my downtime much more than I did when I was younger. Nowadays I really enjoy having time to unwind (relax after a long day) doing mindless activities, such as watching TV or reading a book.

2. What kinds of things are boring to you?
Museums and people who talk too much. I've never been a big fan of museums for some reason. I get extremely bored when everyone is in complete silence observing artifacts and reading information. When I travel, I much before to walk around and soak up (absorb) the local surroundings. On the other hand, I cannot stand people who talk my ear off (talk too much)! I lose focus and cannot wait to get away from them!

3. What will do when you feel bored?
I always call my mom! We have an extremely close relationship, so I know she is always just a phone call away. As she is also in the medical field and shares many similar interests with me, we always have endless things to talk about. Moreover, we both enjoy gossiping!

4. When you were young, what would you do if you felt bored?
When I was young, I would always venture (explore) outside when I was stuck in the house all day. It always kept me entertained to go outside and people watch (sit outside and observe people). Moreover, there was a small pond and park near my house, so I would often go there to play at the playground. The swings were always my first choice.


[013] Maps/Navigation
 
1. Do you use maps?
Well, I tend to (I usually) have a good sense of direction, so I prefer to use them only when there is no other option. I'd rather get directions from someone using landmarks, as I have a photographic memory (when you can easily remember images rather than words). However, when I find myself completely lost, especially in a foreign place, I will resort to (do as a last option) tourist maps or google maps.

2. How often do you use them?
I would say a few times a week. Since I don't usually go outside of my daily routine, I have no reason to use a map. When I get on my bicycle every day, I know every niche (every small detail) of my city. If I find myself lost, you can always rely on a stranger to help in my small town. 

3. What kind of maps do you use? Why is that?
For some reason paper maps just don't seem to click (make sense) in my mind. Because of this, I prefer google maps since they give me verbal instructions. I find this a lot easier to follow, as well as much safer especially when I'm driving. Furthermore, the estimated time and walking, biking, or driving option is super helpful.

4. How long have you been using them?
I've been using online maps for the past few years, and well, paper maps for my entire life. I followed my first paper map while driving when I was 16. I got so lost and ended up calling my father in tears (crying)! Since online maps and GPS, it has become much easier to get around.

5. Did you use paper maps before?
Oh, I can remember those days (an expression when talking fondly about the past)! The glove box(the place in front of your carseat to store things) in my car was full of maps and my father used to draw them for me when I was new to the road. Furthermore, even nowadays when I travel, I often stop by the tourist information desk and get a free map.

6. Have you ever asked somebody/passer-by for directions?
I believe that people will help you in most cases, so I certainly have. I know some people feel shy or maybe too proud to ask for help, but I'm not one of these. Although I've been rejected a few times, more times than not people have gone out of their way (put in a lot of effort to help you) to give me detailed directions with landmarks included to my destination.

7. What type of maps do people use the most nowadays? Why?
Google maps or other online maps/GPS have completely taken over (became popular). Nowadays, you don't even need to know where you're going. Since we have these modern day conveniences, less and less people are going through the hassle (inconvenience) of reading a paper map. Furthermore, since GPS and online maps are so popular, perhaps people are losing the skill to read and follow a map.
 
[014] Teachers
 
1. Do you like any teachers of yours?
There were a few teachers that I was particularly fond of. I'll tell you about my high school PE teacher, Mrs. Burrier. Since she knew I was painfully shy and especially clumsy (can easily trip or fall) when it comes to gym class, she allowed me to do the dance routine that she assigned to us in a private room only in front of her to save me from embarrassment. I so appreciated it!

2. Do you still keep in touch with your teacher?
I've lost contact with all elementary and middle school teachers, but I keep in touch with a couple university professors. As uni professors are allowed to have more of a relationship with students, it was easier to get to know them. My Spanish professor and I message back and forth every year to catch up.

3. Do you want to be a teacher?
As I'm not a patient person, I don't think teaching is for me. Furthermore, I dread (don't look forward to) the thought of standing in front of the classroom trying to get the class's attention while the children fool around (play). I think it takes a special person to be a teacher, and unfortunately I don't meet the criteria!

4. Do you remember your fav teach from primary school?
Of course! I'll tell you about my second grade teacher, Ms. Puleo. She was always kind, encouraging, and incredibly patient, even with us little rascals (slang for kids). I always felt a sense of warmth in her classroom, which the students responded well to. The world needs more teachers like her.

5. Did you pretend to be a teacher in the childhood?
Oh yes! I remember playing teacher with a small chalkboard my friend had at her house. I used to think it was so entertaining to be the teacher and give the class assignments to do; I usually focused on Math and Art. I loved pretending to give orders!

6. What qualities should a good teacher have?
Firstly, I think a teacher needs to be patient. Secondly, I think the teacher must be kind and encouraging, which creates a warm, open learning environment. I also think they should have interpersonal skills to be able to understand the needs of all different students. There are different kinds of teachers, but I would use this as rule of thumb (a general rule).

[012] Physical Exercises
 
🎧 Do you do any physical exercise?
🎧 You could call me a couch potato (a lazy person who sits on the sofa a lot. "Couch" is another word for sofa). I'm naturally thin without any exercise, so I'm quite lazy when it comes to exercise. I do go for mountain hikes, but I should definitely do more to gain muscle.
🎧 Do young people in your country like to do exercise?
🎧 Gyms are not very popular in my country because of the cost, but I would say that people get their fair share of exercise everyday because of the hills in the city. Many people climb a mountain to their home every single day! I used to live in a house that was unreachable by car and a total of 200 stairs to get there!
🎧 Do you think people are keen on doing physical activity? Why?
🎧 Well, I think they are quite accustomed to it. I don't think they would be too keen on going to the gym, but they really enjoy going on mountain hikes. Since our religion is based upon the Mother Earth and the Mountain Gods, these treks are a spiritual journey.
 
[013] Drinking Water
 
🎧 How often do you drink water?
🎧 Well, everyday of course! Staying hydrated (provide water for someone to keep them healthy) is a priority for me since I easily get a headache if I don't, not to mention my weight loss goals. Drinking enough water is of paramount importance for health.
🎧 What kind of water do you like to drink?
🎧 All different kinds; I'm not too picky (selective)! I either drink tap water that I put in a Brita filter, or bottled water from time to time (sometimes). I usually put water in my refillable water bottle and carry it around me with me all day.
🎧 Do you drink bottled water or water from water machines?
🎧 Bottled water. Since the water in my country is potable (drinkable), I usually opt for that with a filter to improve the flavor. If this isn't available to me, I buy a bottle of water, although I prefer not to because of my environmental concerns.
 