[011] Sports
 
🎧 Do you like to watch sports on TV?
🎧 Not at all! I despise (hate) it. I get extremely bored and disinterested. I usually try to avoid watching sports on TV at all costs unless it's an exciting event, like the World Cup or Super Bowl. In that case, I go for the social event rather than the game itself.
🎧 Do you play any sports?
🎧 Not anymore. I was an avid (enthusiastic) swimmer as a child, but I gave that up after high school, as it was quite time-consuming. Nowadays, I enjoy going to the gym, running around the lake by my house, and going on mountain treks. I'm not sure if these are considered sports, but I'm really into physical activity.
🎧 Which is the popular sports in your country?
🎧 Soccer of course! As soccer is the sport of the world, that would be number one. People go wild when our team wins a game- they even drive around waving flags, blocking off the streets! Apart from this, many people enjoy playing tennis and doing martial arts.
🎧 Who is your favorite sports star?
🎧 As I'm not a big sports fan, I don't really have one. However, I think I may like Cristiano Ronaldo. Although I don't know anything about him or his athletic abilities, I think I've always been drawn to him (attracted to) because of his looks.
🎧 What kinds of sports would you like to try in the future?
🎧 I'm really intrigued by soccer. I think it's something that can really connect people, as well as is good cardiovascular and coordination activity. Actually, I wish I had gotten into it as a child. I think it would be interesting to join a league in my city. 
 
[012] Physical Exercises
 
🎧 Do you do any physical exercise?
🎧 You could call me a couch potato (a lazy person who sits on the sofa a lot. "Couch" is another word for sofa). I'm naturally thin without any exercise, so I'm quite lazy when it comes to exercise. I do go for mountain hikes, but I should definitely do more to gain muscle.
🎧 Do young people in your country like to do exercise?
🎧 Gyms are not very popular in my country because of the cost, but I would say that people get their fair share of exercise everyday because of the hills in the city. Many people climb a mountain to their home every single day! I used to live in a house that was unreachable by car and a total of 200 stairs to get there!
🎧 Do you think people are keen on doing physical activity? Why?
🎧 Well, I think they are quite accustomed to it. I don't think they would be too keen on going to the gym, but they really enjoy going on mountain hikes. Since our religion is based upon the Mother Earth and the Mountain Gods, these treks are a spiritual journey.
 
[013] Drinking Water
 
🎧 How often do you drink water?
🎧 Well, everyday of course! Staying hydrated (provide water for someone to keep them healthy) is a priority for me since I easily get a headache if I don't, not to mention my weight loss goals. Drinking enough water is of paramount importance for health.
🎧 What kind of water do you like to drink?
🎧 All different kinds; I'm not too picky (selective)! I either drink tap water that I put in a Brita filter, or bottled water from time to time (sometimes). I usually put water in my refillable water bottle and carry it around me with me all day.
🎧 Do you drink bottled water or water from water machines?
🎧 Bottled water. Since the water in my country is potable (drinkable), I usually opt for that with a filter to improve the flavor. If this isn't available to me, I buy a bottle of water, although I prefer not to because of my environmental concerns.
 