[001] Morning
 
🎧 Do you usually do the same things in the mornings?
🎧 As I'm a creature of habit, I would say yes. I always get up at 6:00 am, have noodles and tea for breakfast, brush my teeth, then brush up (quickly study) on what we learned the day before in class to make sure I'm well-prepared. After all of this, I start heading to class at 8:30 AM. However, on weekends, I tend to hit the snooze button and end up sleeping till 9:00 AM then start my day.
🎧 Do you think breakfast is important?
🎧 Absolutely. Many experts say that it is the most important meal of the day. I believe it gives me the fuel I need to tackle my day (to trongly take on the day). Moreover, I think it's critical to have a balanced breakfast to make sure I get all the proper nutrients. I cannot imagine starting my day on an empty stomach!
🎧 Did you do the same morning routines in your early ages?
🎧 Yes, pretty much! As I've always been a scholarly person, I've always had the motivation to get myself up earlier than expected to have a balanced breakfast and prepare myself for the day ahead of me. However, I used to have more of a sweet tooth (a person who lives sweets) as a child, so I used to munch on (eat) some sweet bread instead of noodles.
🎧 Do you want to change your daily routines in the future?
🎧 I think it's inevitable since I'll soon be joining the workforce! I want to keep my organized, prepared habits, but I hope to sleep in a bit more in the future. I would like to at least sleep 30 minutes to an hour later, and not have to spend as much time preparing for my day. Furthermore, I hope to have my own car instead of taking a Grab every morning.

[002] Study time
 
🎧 What can you do to improve your learning efficiency?
🎧 Hmm, I would say that meditation and physical exercise can certainly be of help. I believe that meditation can help you to become more aware of yourself and find your center of concentration. Furthermore, exercise releases tension and brings you back to focus. When I feel overwhelmed with my studies, I often take a break to go work out at the gym then afterwards feel more productive.
🎧 Do you prefer to study in the morning or in the evening?
🎧 Definitely the evening. When I have an exam the next morning, I feel that the information stays with me much more clearly when I cram (study at the last minute) the evening before. When I try to study in the morning, I often feel rushed or cannot stay focused, as I know all my daily tasks are awaiting me.
🎧 What time do you like to study?
🎧 Around dinnertime after I've finished all my tasks for the day; I feel most at ease at this time. When I study right before bed, I tend to even dream of that information, helping me to remember clearly for that exam.
🎧 Why do people find it difficult to focus on studying?
🎧 Well, for one, studying isn't something enjoyable for many people, so it's hard to concentrate on something you dislike. Moreover, it's difficult with all of the distractions of today- such as texting, instagram, facebook, etc. Lastly, some people become preoccupied with other tasks they need to do, such as cleaning or cooking.
🎧 Do you like to study alone or with your friends?
🎧 Both can be nice. But, I tend to be more efficient when I study alone. Sometimes when I study with friends, we get off topic and don't get much done. However, it is effective to quiz each other. So all in all, there are benefits to both.
 
[003] Plants
 
🎧 Do you like plants?
🎧 Frankly speaking, I'm quite drawn by plants and vegetation in general. I often find myself wandering about in the parks gazing aimlessly at the flowerbeds and enjoy the aroma that some beautiful flowers give off.
🎧 Do you think plants can be a good gift?
🎧 Definitely, plants usually feature in many occasions from casual birthdays to more formal dinners. It's common to bring a bunch of newly picked flowers or a bouquet of flowers to the host family.
🎧 Can you grow plants? Do you know anything about growing a plant?
🎧 I don't have a knack for gardening, so it's quite over my head when it comes to growing certain types of plants. My mother often takes care of this instead.
🎧 Do you keep plants at home?
🎧 Yes, I do. I mean I keep lily in my bedroom and I also plant some vegetables like cucumber, onions and tomatoes in the balcony. Now you can see everything covered in green.

[004] Films
 
🎧 Do you like watch films?
🎧 Absolutely! They are an excellent way to unwind (relax; free your mind). Moreover, my friends are reallt into films, so it's a fun, relaxing way to spend time together. Afterwards, we discuss and debate the film that we have just watched. Apart from just relaxing and enjoying the film, I like to delve deeper (get to the deeper meaning) to discover the subliminal messages.
🎧 What kinds of movies do you like best?
🎧 Well, I would say I'm still a kid at heart (a person who still feels like a child in their heart), so I really enjoy watching kids' movies. Although they seem simple and innocent, there are often many life lessons packed into these films. Moreover, I'm really into drama and historical movies. When I watch these, I feel that I can more deeply understand human emotions and re-live historical moments, like the Vietnam-America War or World War II.
🎧 Do you prefer foreign films or films made in your country?
🎧 Since my country doesn't have a huge film industry, I've always been really into American films. Not to knock (to insult; discredit) other film industries, but American ones are incredibly entertaining and well-made; the evolution of film continues to amaze me. Moreover, I only watch films in English so it helps me to learn new slang and expressions.
🎧 How often do you watch films?
🎧 Well, I am quite a busy bee (a busy person), but I manage to see about one or two films a week at home. After a long day of studying, I love snuggling up (getting comfortable with blankets) on the sofa and watching a film to unwind. I tend to do this on Friday and Sunday evenings with my friends.
🎧 How often do you go to a cinema to watch a movie?
🎧 Not too often actually. As the prices in my country are quite high, I usually opt to (choose) watch a movie at home instead to save on costs. Actually, I think it's kind of a waste of money to see a movie at a cinema when you can watch it from the comfort of your living room. I only go when a friend invites me, which is maybe 4 times a year.
🎧 Do people in your country like to go to a cinema to watch a film?
🎧 I would say so. Since people like to go out with their families on the weekends, this is often an activity that they would choose. Moreover, teenagers enjoy this activity as a way to get out of the house. Furthermore, it's often a popular date option for many people!
🎧 What was the first film that you watched?
🎧 Hmm it's hard to say the first, but I think it was the Lion King. I know it first came out in the early 90's when I was a child. It was my absolute favorite- I used to watch it repeatedly until my parents were really tired of it! I even built "pride rock" out of rocks that I found when we would go to visit my relatives who have a garden.
🎧 Do you like to watch movies alone or with your friends?
🎧 Both! On one hand, I find it extremely relaxing to chill out and fall asleep to a film by myself, but it's also enjoyable to have company. So, all in all, I prefer films with friends, since they are also into film. Afterwards, we can discuss the meaning and carry on inside jokes (jokes among friends) from quotes from the film later on!
🎧 Would you like to be in a movie?
🎧 Not one bit! As I have stage fright (fear of being on stage), I would never have the guts (never be brave enough to) to do it. Secondly, I feel awkward when I try to act and I have the memory of a goldfish (short memory) so I know I could never memorize my lines! All in all, acting is simply not my thing.

[005] Spare time/Hobbies

🎧 Do you have any hobbies?
🎧 Of course! My number one hobby is playing golf. Actually, my entire family, grandparents included, are really into golf. Ever since I was a child, my father used to take me to the driving range (the place to practice hitting golf balls) with him to practice. This planted the seed of interest for me. Now we all play together as a family, and actually I beat them all most of the time!
🎧 What do you do when you have free time?
🎧 My favorite things to do are play golf and see my friends and family. My top priority is spending time with those I love- and luckily most of us share the common interest of golf. For those who don't like golf, I enjoy spending time eating or at a coffeeshop together.
🎧 What free time activities are popular with people in your country?
🎧 As most countries in the world, soccer is quite popular. Furthermore, people tend to enjoy playing cricket and drinking tea with one another. Nowadays, backpacking across Southeast Asia is becoming quite popular too!
🎧 What do you usually do after work or classes?
🎧 Since I have an exhausting day in the office, I don't like to stay sedentary all day. I usually hit the gym and go to the driving range after work almost every single day. If I go straight home, I become glued to (attached to) the couch (another word for sofa) and don't do anything worthwhile.
🎧 Do you prefer staying at home or going out during evenings?
🎧 As I'm an extroverted, active person, I'd definitely rather hit the town (go out). I really enjoy going out with my college and golf mates fore some beers every weekend. Moreover, I always dedicate Sunday to my family. We usually have a lunch and tea time at my grandmother's house.
🎧 What free-time activities would you like to try in the future?
🎧 Lately I've had a growing interest in yoga and meditation. Some of my friends and family have recently gotten involved in it, and I see that it helps them maintain their calm regardless of the chaos around them. Furthermore, it improves balance, coordination, and body toning. I think it could benefit me, as I have a stressful office job.
🎧 Do you like to spend your free time with families or friends?
🎧 It's equal! I need both. However, family will always be my number one priority. Unlike some people, I always let loose and have fun with my family. On the other hand, I really enjoy spending time with my friends and discussing topics that would be inappropriate in front of family members.
 
[006] Saving Money
 
🎧 Is money important to you?
🎧 So-so. To be honest, money can help your life. As I know I'm a person who likes traveling abroad, I know I must have a high-paying job to be able to attain this lifestyle. When I have this freedom to have new experiences, I feel a lot happier. So, because of this I'd say money matters to me.
🎧 How do you save money?
🎧 I think it's always important to have a certain number in mind. I think of a goal amount to save each month and pretend as if I don't have it. This has been a huge success for me. With these savings, I've been able to take my dream vacations and buy nice gifts for my family.
🎧 Did you save money when you were young?
🎧 As I've always dreamt of traveling the world, I used to save money in a piggybank! Although these savings never amounted to anything substantial, maybe just some movie tickets or candy, I'm glad I did it as a way to teach myself to save. I'll never forget how sad I felt when we broke the piggy-bank!
🎧 Why do people save money?
🎧 Various reasons! I think the main reasons are to have a safety blanket in case emergencies or unexpected costs arise, such as a flat tire or a broken hot water heater, or to save for a vacation or something specific that they would like to buy. Moreover, many parents are focused on saving for their children's schooling and college later on.
🎧 Have you ever given money to the children?
🎧 Certainly! Although I don't have any children of my own yet, I like to slip a 20 dollar bill into birthday cards for my young nieces and nephews. Furthermore, when I've traveled, I often buy things from children selling on the streets.
 
[007] Foreign food
 
🎧 Have you ever tried foreign food?
🎧 Of course! Since Germany welcomes many immigrants and refugees, we embrace a multi-cultural cuisine. Since there are many with Turkish roots living here, we are huge fans of kebab. Moreover, we enjoy many asian cuisines, especially Vietnamese, since there is a large Vietnamese community living here.
🎧 Do you like to try new food?
🎧 Absolutely! I think it adds color to our live and tastebuds (part on our tongue that controls taste). As I'm a big foodie, I'm always open to trying new cuisines. I've never been very fearful nor picky when it comes to trying new foods. Even sometimes the scariest looking dishes I've tried have ended up being delicious, such as sheep head soup in Peru and tarantula in Cambodia.
🎧 How often did you eat foreign food when you were young?
🎧 Since my father is of Turkish decent where my mother is German, we have always had a fusion (mixture) of cuisines in my home. Furthermore, my father only eats halal meat, so we would often go Middle Eastern or Indian restaurants to accommodate this. Moreover, my mother has always had a taste for Asian cuisines, so we have always incorporated Vietnamese, Chinese, Thai, etc foods into our eating habits as well.
🎧 Do you like any food from countries near yours?
🎧 Certainly! One of the things I like most about living in Europe is that each country has it's own unique cuisine. I really enjoy the waffles, chocolate, and beer from one of our neighbors, Belgium, as well as the one of a kind perogies (a traditional Polish dish) from Poland. All in all, I'd have to say that Mediterranean cuisines, especially Greek and Italian, foods are my favorite. There are few things that compare to those fresh ingredients and delicious olives!
🎧 Do people in your country like foreign food?
🎧 As Germany welcomes many immigrants into our country, I would say yes, since people have always been exposed to different types of food. In my experience, I see that all of the people in my circle embrace (to take advantage of) the unique variety of flavors that we have here in Berlin. To be honest, I don't know anyone who doesn't enjoy a juicy Doner kebab!
🎧 Will people eat more or less foreign food?
🎧 More! Since Germany continues to be one of the most desirable migration destinations in the world, I'm sure that even more foreign cuisines will be introduced into our country. Moreover, I think that the traditional German food may become a fusion with other popular cuisines here. I really look forward to this! I think that multi-cultural foods bring more culture and richness (diversity) to a place.
 
[008] Boredom
 
🎧 Do you ever get bored?
🎧 Of course! But recently I have been so lost in my medical school that I haven't really had time to feel bored. Since I work and study from sun up to sun down (all day), I embrace my downtime much more than I did when I was younger. Nowadays I really enjoy having time to unwind (relax after a long day) doing mindless activities, such as watching TV or reading a book.
🎧 What kinds of things are boring to you?
🎧 Museums and people who talk too much. I've never been a big fan of museums for some reason. I get extremely bored when everyone is in complete silence observing artifacts and reading information. When I travel, I much before to walk around and soak up (absorb) the local surroundings. On the other hand, I cannot stand people who talk my ear off (talk too much)! I lose focus and cannot wait to get away from them!
🎧 What will do when you feel bored?
🎧 I always call my mom! We have an extremely close relationship, so I know she is always just a phone call away. As she is also in the medical field and shares many similar interests with me, we always have endless things to talk about. Moreover, we both enjoy gossiping!
🎧 When you were young, what would you do if you felt bored?
🎧 When I was young, I would always venture (explore) outside when I was stuck in the house all day. It always kept me entertained to go outside and people watch (sit outside and observe people). Moreover, there was a small pond and park near my house, so I would often go there to play at the playground. The swings were always my first choice.
 
[009] Maps/Navigation
 
🎧 Do you use maps?
🎧 Well, I tend to (I usually) have a good sense of direction, so I prefer to use them only when there is no other option. I'd rather get directions from someone using landmarks, as I have a photographic memory (when you can easily remember images rather than words). However, when I find myself completely lost, especially in a foreign place, I will resort to (do as a last option) tourist maps or google maps.
🎧 How often do you use them?
🎧 I would say a few times a week. Since I don't usually go outside of my daily routine, I have no reason to use a map. When I get on my bicycle every day, I know every niche (every small detail) of my city. If I find myself lost, you can always rely on a stranger to help in my small town. 
🎧 What kind of maps do you use? Why is that?
🎧 For some reason paper maps just don't seem to click (make sense) in my mind. Because of this, I prefer google maps since they give me verbal instructions. I find this a lot easier to follow, as well as much safer especially when I'm driving. Furthermore, the estimated time and walking, biking, or driving option is super helpful.
🎧 How long have you been using them?
🎧 I've been using online maps for the past few years, and well, paper maps for my entire life. I followed my first paper map while driving when I was 16. I got so lost and ended up calling my father in tears (crying)! Since online maps and GPS, it has become much easier to get around.
🎧 Did you use paper maps before?
🎧 Oh, I can remember those days (an expression when talking fondly about the past)! The glove box(the place in front of your carseat to store things) in my car was full of maps and my father used to draw them for me when I was new to the road. Furthermore, even nowadays when I travel, I often stop by the tourist information desk and get a free map.
🎧 Have you ever asked somebody/passer-by for directions?
🎧 I believe that people will help you in most cases, so I certainly have. I know some people feel shy or maybe too proud to ask for help, but I'm not one of these. Although I've been rejected a few times, more times than not people have gone out of their way (put in a lot of effort to help you) to give me detailed directions with landmarks included to my destination.
🎧 What type of maps do people use the most nowadays? Why?
🎧 Google maps or other online maps/GPS have completely taken over (became popular). Nowadays, you don't even need to know where you're going. Since we have these modern day conveniences, less and less people are going through the hassle (inconvenience) of reading a paper map. Furthermore, since GPS and online maps are so popular, perhaps people are losing the skill to read and follow a map.
 
[010] Teachers
 
🎧 Do you like any teachers of yours?
🎧 There were a few teachers that I was particularly fond of. I'll tell you about my high school PE teacher, Mrs. Burrier. Since she knew I was painfully shy and especially clumsy (can easily trip or fall) when it comes to gym class, she allowed me to do the dance routine that she assigned to us in a private room only in front of her to save me from embarrassment. I so appreciated it!
🎧 Do you still keep in touch with your teacher?
🎧 I've lost contact with all elementary and middle school teachers, but I keep in touch with a couple university professors. As uni professors are allowed to have more of a relationship with students, it was easier to get to know them. My Spanish professor and I message back and forth every year to catch up.
🎧 Do you want to be a teacher?
🎧 As I'm not a patient person, I don't think teaching is for me. Furthermore, I dread (don't look forward to) the thought of standing in front of the classroom trying to get the class's attention while the children fool around (play). I think it takes a special person to be a teacher, and unfortunately I don't meet the criteria!
🎧 Do you remember your fav teach from primary school?
🎧 Of course! I'll tell you about my second grade teacher, Ms. Puleo. She was always kind, encouraging, and incredibly patient, even with us little rascals (slang for kids). I always felt a sense of warmth in her classroom, which the students responded well to. The world needs more teachers like her.
🎧 Did you pretend to be a teacher in the childhood?
🎧 Oh yes! I remember playing teacher with a small chalkboard my friend had at her house. I used to think it was so entertaining to be the teacher and give the class assignments to do; I usually focused on Math and Art. I loved pretending to give orders!
🎧 What qualities should a good teacher have?
🎧 Firstly, I think a teacher needs to be patient. Secondly, I think the teacher must be kind and encouraging, which creates a warm, open learning environment. I also think they should have interpersonal skills to be able to understand the needs of all different students. There are different kinds of teachers, but I would use this as rule of thumb (a general rule).
 
[011] Sports
 
🎧 Do you like to watch sports on TV?
🎧 Not at all! I despise (hate) it. I get extremely bored and disinterested. I usually try to avoid watching sports on TV at all costs unless it's an exciting event, like the World Cup or Super Bowl. In that case, I go for the social event rather than the game itself.
🎧 Do you play any sports?
🎧 Not anymore. I was an avid (enthusiastic) swimmer as a child, but I gave that up after high school, as it was quite time-consuming. Nowadays, I enjoy going to the gym, running around the lake by my house, and going on mountain treks. I'm not sure if these are considered sports, but I'm really into physical activity.
🎧 Which is the popular sports in your country?
🎧 Soccer of course! As soccer is the sport of the world, that would be number one. People go wild when our team wins a game- they even drive around waving flags, blocking off the streets! Apart from this, many people enjoy playing tennis and doing martial arts.
🎧 Who is your favorite sports star?
🎧 As I'm not a big sports fan, I don't really have one. However, I think I may like Cristiano Ronaldo. Although I don't know anything about him or his athletic abilities, I think I've always been drawn to him (attracted to) because of his looks.
🎧 What kinds of sports would you like to try in the future?
🎧 I'm really intrigued by soccer. I think it's something that can really connect people, as well as is good cardiovascular and coordination activity. Actually, I wish I had gotten into it as a child. I think it would be interesting to join a league in my city. 
 
[012] Physical Exercises
 
🎧 Do you do any physical exercise?
🎧 You could call me a couch potato (a lazy person who sits on the sofa a lot. "Couch" is another word for sofa). I'm naturally thin without any exercise, so I'm quite lazy when it comes to exercise. I do go for mountain hikes, but I should definitely do more to gain muscle.
🎧 Do young people in your country like to do exercise?
🎧 Gyms are not very popular in my country because of the cost, but I would say that people get their fair share of exercise everyday because of the hills in the city. Many people climb a mountain to their home every single day! I used to live in a house that was unreachable by car and a total of 200 stairs to get there!
🎧 Do you think people are keen on doing physical activity? Why?
🎧 Well, I think they are quite accustomed to it. I don't think they would be too keen on going to the gym, but they really enjoy going on mountain hikes. Since our religion is based upon the Mother Earth and the Mountain Gods, these treks are a spiritual journey.
 
[013] Drinking Water
 
🎧 How often do you drink water?
🎧 Well, everyday of course! Staying hydrated (provide water for someone to keep them healthy) is a priority for me since I easily get a headache if I don’t, not to mention my weight loss goals. Drinking enough water is of paramount importance for health.
🎧 What kind of water do you like to drink?
🎧 All different kinds; I’m not too picky (selective)! I either drink tap water that I put in a Brita filter, or bottled water from time to time (sometimes). I usually put water in my refillable water bottle and carry it around me with me all day.
🎧 Do you drink bottled water or water from water machines?
🎧 Bottled water. Since the water in my country is potable (drinkable), I usually opt for that with a filter to improve the flavor. If this isn’t available to me, I buy a bottle of water, although I prefer not to because of my environmental concerns.
 
[014] 220 ielts part 1 - 01
 
🎧 Hello. Come in please and have a seat.
🎧 Thank you.
🎧 And can I have your passport, please?
🎧 Yes. There you go.
🎧 Thanks, and may I have your full name, please?
🎧 My name is Nargess Barzegar, but everybody calls me Ameneh. It's been my nickname since I was born.
🎧 Does your name have any special meaning?
🎧 Well, yes. The name Nargess is a flower. It's in actual fact a Daffodil.
🎧 Alright. And who gave this nickname to you?
🎧 Well, it's an interesting story because at the time that I was born there was a very popular song, a pop song by the name of "Ameneh", and my older siblings who were children at the time, decided there and then that this should be my name, Ameneh, but my parents didn't agree.
🎧 Alright Ameneh. Is your name important to you?
🎧 Well yes, I think everybody's name is important to them. It's the one thing that you fully associate yourself with.
🎧 OK, thanks Ameneh. And tell me where do you come from?
🎧 Well I come from Tehran, which is the capital of Iran. Tehran is a bustling city with a very large population of! think about E7 million people. It's a very busy and polluted city, but at the same time it's very charming and you can meet people from all sorts of backgrounds.
🎧 Alright Ameneh. What do you like about your hometown?
🎧 Well, like I said, I like the fact that you can meet people from all sorts of backgrounds. My hometown, Tehran, has beautiful mountains in the North. It's very vibrant. You can almost find something interesting in every neighbourhood. There's lots of activity going on during the day, which makes it very interesting as a city.
🎧 OK, Ameneh. Tell me, what do most of the people do in your hometown?
🎧 Well, as Tehran is the capital, there's a variety of vocations and activities going on during the day. Obviously it's the base of a country, so you have businessmen, you have lots of shops, and you have many ministries, many schools. All in all, there's a variety of jobs and activities going on.
🎧 OK, thanks Ameneh. Now let's move on to the second part. I would like to show you a topic card, and you have to talk about this topic for about two minutes. You have one minute to prepare yourself. Here is a paper and a pencil. You can write down your notes if you wish.
🎧 Thank you very much.
 
[015] 220 ielts part 3 - 01
 
🎧 Thanks Ameneh. Now I would like to ask you a few more questions related to the same topic. How important is goal-setting in your life?
🎧 This is extremely important. If you don't set goals - reachable, feasible goals - then you may as well just stop doing what you're doing. If you don't set these goals, then you lose track of what you've been up to and what else needs to be done. This leads to really destructive disorganisation, and at the end of the day you probably will end up without enough time, sufficient time to reach what you set out to reach. That's why self-discipline in keeping within your timeframe for these goals, and working hard to reach them really does make a difference.
🎧 Tell me Ameneh, do you consider yourself a real success?
🎧 That's a difficult question to answer, because I might not be the biggest success compared to other people. But for me personally, yes. My personal opinion of myself, with the circumstances that I had, I do consider myself quite a success because after all, I did manage to divide my time fairly between my studies, the pursuit of my education, and my family. I don't think I compromised my family in order to reach my educational goals. So therefore, yes, I do consider myself a success.
🎧 OK thanks. And do you think having an organised programme can lead to people's success?
🎧 Well I think it's of the utmost importance actually. I think that not having an organised programme or schedule will almost certainly result in the shortage of time. It's specifically important for short-term goals, as time is of the essence. A schedule is also necessary for long-term goals. Because its human nature to put things off till later, or you know, procrastinate, and you end up running out of time without even realising it. So, having a schedule will help you keep track of it.
🎧 Thank you very much. This is the end of the speaking test Have a nice day.
🎧 Thank you. You too.
 
[016] 220 ielts part 1 - 02
 
🎧 Good Afternoon.
🎧 Good afternoon.
🎧 Come in please and have a seat.
🎧 Thank you very much.
🎧 Alright. Can I take a look at your passport, please?
🎧 Yes. Here you go.
🎧 Thanks, and what is your full name?
🎧 My name is Sara Akbari.
🎧 Alright Sara. What is the meaning of your name?
🎧 I think Sara means pure and innocent. However, this is an international name, as I have heard it in many other languages as well.
🎧 All right Sara. Do you think your name is important to you? Do you like it or you would like to change your name?
🎧 Well, I've never given it much thought. I think that must mean that I'm quite content with the name I have. And although I think it's quite a common name, I am nonetheless happy with it.
🎧 Alright Sara. Please describe your daily routine.
🎧 Well, I'm a university student in my second year. My daily routine during the week would consist of me waking up quite early in the morning — I'd say about 6 o'clock. From about six till eight I'll get ready, I'll have my breakfast. If there's any work that needs to be done before attending class, I'll try and fit it in there. I take the bus to university, after which, of course, I attend the classes. Lunchtimes, we normally go off campus with my friends for a sandwich or a quick bite to eat. If we have more time, we might sit in the park and discuss sonic of the subjects we're doing. If I have classes in the afternoon, I'll return to campus and attend those. On a normal day, I'd say I'm finished at university by about 5 o'clock. And by the time I get home, it should be close to seven. After this, well it depends on how much work I have to do for the next day. Or, whether or not I have enough free time, in which case I will sit down and watch some television or spend some time with my mother.
🎧 Alright Sara. What do you do on weekends?
🎧 Well, preferably, I'd like to spend weekends relaxing and refreshing myself for the coming week. But, there will be times when I'll need to sit down and do some studying. Maybe I've fallen behind on a certain subject, or maybe! need to do some research. But! do prefer to relax, spend some time with my family, maybe go out with my friends, and generally feel rested for the following week.
🎧 OK, thanks Sara. What are some of your hobbies?
🎧 Well, if! have the time, I do enjoy going for a swim every once in a while. I also enjoy going window shopping with my friends, and reading. But during university, you have so much to read that I sometimes don't feel like reading fiction during my spare time.
🎧 OK Sara. How much time do you spend with your friends in your spare time?
🎧 Well, I like to divide that spare time between my family and my friends. Obviously, I see my family every day, mostly over a meal in the evening. Friends, it's not so. Of course, my university friends I'll see during the day, if we have classes together. But other friends, it's difficult to catch up on a regular basis. I'd say I wouldn't mind spending one day a week catching up with my friends and seeing what they're up to, and exchanging our weekly stories.
🎧 Alright Sara, now we move onto another topic. I will show you a topic card and I would like you to talk about the topic for about two minutes. You have once minute to organise your mind and think about the topic. Here is a paper and a pencil and you can write down notes if you wish.
🎧 Thank you very much.
 
[017] 220 ielts part 3 - 02
 
🎧 Thank you Sara. Now I would like to ask a few more detailed questions. How can someone take a good photograph? 
🎧 Well, I do enjoy photography, but I'm in no way a professional photographer. I'd have to say a good angle, the right subject. I think light is very important, obviously, well, it would depend on the subject as well and location, but I think there are many different aspects involved in taking a good photo. 
🎧 Do you prefer to keep a film or a photograph?
🎧 Well, you have to consider them both really. Photographs are obviously moments in time that have been captured and you can take them out at any given time and have a look at them and feel those emotions again, and see the happiness or whatever the occasion was and what feelings it induced in the people in the photograph or the subject of the photograph. Film has its advantages of being more real, having motion and movement and also sound. But on a personal level, I think there's something magical about a photograph that will never be about a film. 
🎧 Do you prefer a black and white photo or a colourful one?
🎧 Again, that depends on the subject matter. I think portraits are more beautiful when they're black and white. But some landscape and sceneries are obviously all the more breathtaking because of the colour. So it would be a shame to take the photograph in black and white.
🎧 How do you feel when you look at your family album?
🎧 A great sense of nostalgia. I absolutely enjoy going through my family albums and looking at my parents and relatives from even before I existed. I like to think what they were thinking then and how they felt, and the funny part, I think, is the way they used to dress. It's just such a beautiful experience, to be able to go back and see what your loved ones looked like, or try to imagine what must have been going on through their minds at the time when this photograph was taken. It's a lovely experience.
🎧 Thank you very much Sara. That is the end of your speaking test. Have a nice day.
🎧 Thank you very much. 
 
[018] 220 ielts part 1 - 03
 
🎧 Good Morning.
🎧 Good Morning.
🎧 Come in and have a seat please.
🎧 Thank you very much.
🎧 May I have a look at your passport?
🎧 Yes, here you are.
🎧 OK thanks, and may I have your full name please?
🎧 My name is Nazli Parvizi.
🎧 Alright, thanks Nazli. Who put this name on you?
🎧 Nazli, is actually my paternal grandmother, and my parents decided to name me after her.
🎧 What kinds of names are popular in your country?
🎧 Well, I'll have to say that there's a variety of names. For girls it's mostly flowers, or ancient Persian names, and obviously religious names. But for boys, it tends to be, I think, mostly religious names and also ancient Persian names. You will come across quite a few people who have been named after a prominent religious figure, a historical religious figure. So they would use that for official purposes, but they might be called something totally different at home. 
🎧 Alright Nazli. Tell me, what is your major?
🎧 I have a degree in Teaching English as a Foreign Language.
🎧 Do you like your major, and why.
🎧 Yes I do indeed. I wanted to learn English fluently ever since I was a child. So, being lucky enough to get accepted on this course was a dream come true for me. And I enjoyed the course thoroughly. And of course, I've reached my childhood dream now.
🎧 And what do you do at the moment, Nazli?
🎧 At the moment I'm teaching English, both at an institute and also privately.
🎧 Ok thanks. And tell me, what do you like about your job?
🎧 Well, what I enjoy the most about my job, as I think most teachers would agree, is the sense of satisfaction, and gratification you get when your students learn what you're actually trying so hard, and they're trying so hard to. Nothing replaces that, I think, as a teacher. It's the most wonderful feeling.
🎧 Is there anything you dislike about your job?
🎧 Well I wouldn't go as far to say dislike. But I find it quite frustrating sometimes if a student is lacking in concentration, or is not even interested in learning this language. You do come across people who are forced by parents, or think it's absolutely necessary to learn English, but don't really commit to it much as they could. Trying to encourage these students, it is quite an ordeal. But it's not something I would hate my job for. It's something that's just an obstacle that I have to overcome as a teacher. 
🎧 Alright Nazli. Would you like to have your own business one day?
🎧 Yes, actually. My ultimate dream would be to open an English Language institute, which would of course be for all ages and levels. This would probably not materialise for quite some time yet. But I am working my way towards reaching this goal.
🎧 Thank you Nazli. Now we move on to a topic. I would like to show you a topic card. You have to talk about the topic for about two minutes. You have one minute to think about the topic. Here is a paper and pencil, you can write down notes if you wish.
🎧 Thank you very much. 
 
[019] 220 ielts part 3 - 03
 
🎧 Alright, thanks Nazli. Now I would like to ask a few more questions. What is the difference between a letter and an email?
🎧 Well, we can say the main difference is I suppose the speed in which we receive a letter as opposed to an email. Modern life probably necessitates speedier access to communication. So therefore, an email is much more convenient and less time-consuming.
🎧 How do you think internet has changed traditional letter writing?
🎧 Do you mean in the aspect of whether it's a good change or a negative change?
🎧 That's right.
🎧 Well, I think that it has a little bit of both. The internet facilitates the speed in which you can communicate important matters and personal matters with others. And also, it doesn't necessitate a person sitting down and writing a letter, and having to post it, and waiting for the time that it would take to deliver in order to get a reply. With the internet you can write a message and convey a certain thing within minutes, and receive a reply within minutes. On the downside, I would have to say that an email lacks the emotion that maybe the sender is trying to convey. With letters you can perhaps tell a lot about its context because of the person's handwriting. It has a generally more personal touch to it, which I think is quite special. So, maybe emails are a good thing, but on special occasions for the people who matter to you, sending the occasional letter I think is a nice gesture.
🎧 And the last question Nazli. Would post offices disappear in the next fifty years?
🎧 Well, I wouldn't be surprised if they did, or at least they were diminished in numbers greatly. The reason is that obviously people are relying more and more on the internet to communicate. But on the other hand, as is the case now, a lot of people around the world still don't have access to the internet, so I think it wouldn't altogether disappear. At the end of the day you can't send a parcel, or a small package via the internet. So perhaps not entirely, but maybe you'd come across them a lot less often than you do now.
🎧 Thank you very much, Nazli. This is the end of the speaking test.
🎧 Thank you.

[020] 220 ielts part 1 - 04

🎧 Good Afternoon.
🎧 Good Afternoon.
🎧 Come in please and have a seat.
🎧 Thank you.
🎧 May I have a look at your passport please?
🎧 Yes. Here you are.
🎧 Fine, thanks. And may I have your full name?
🎧 My name is Maryam Bahri.
🎧 Alright Maryam, describe your family please.
🎧 Well there's five people in my family: my parents, and my two siblings and I. I'm the youngest child. I have an older sister which is the oldest child, and of course my brother, who's the middle child.
🎧 Thanks. Do you get along well with your family members?
🎧 Well we try to get on as well as we can, but obviously each of us has a very different character to the other. So yes, because we're not a small family we try to learn, or we were taught early on to appreciate our differences and try and get along as best as we can.
🎧 Thanks Maryam. What do you like to do to together as a family?
🎧 If we haven't seen each other for a long stretch of time, what we most like to do is get together for a family meal, and discuss the things that are going on in our lives. We tend to do that at least once a week with all the family gathered at my parent's house. It's a very enjoyable time, because you get to catch up and learn what your family are doing. And also, give each other advice on different subjects or difficulties we might be having. 
🎧 Are people in your country generally close to their families?
🎧 I would say yes, very much so. In our culture it's very important. It's a very family-oriented culture. Families tend to stay in touch a lot. And even if there's distance, for whatever reason, they always tend to keep in touch and inform each other of their well-being. I think the culture encourages this. 
🎧 Alright Maryam. What kind of building do you live in?
🎧 I live on the fifth floor of a twelve-storey apartment building. My apartment is not very large, but it has a nice living area and two smallish bedrooms. What I like most about my building is my neighbours, who are very kind, and they keep to themselves, but you can rely on their help if you need it
🎧 Alright thanks Maryam. Do you like your neighbourhood?
🎧 I have to say yes, because it's quite central and therefore everything is easily within access. The downside to my neighbourhood is maybe the traffic and the noise. But all in all, I like it. I do. 
🎧 Have you ever thought about changing your apartment?
🎧 Not for the moment, no. But if our family grows, then obviously we will have to move into a bigger apartment
🎧 Alright, thanks Maryam. Now let's move onto the topic of libraries. 1 would like you to describe a library you have been to. You have to talk about this topic for two minutes, and you have one minute to think about the topic. Here is a paper and pencil. You can think about the topic, and write down your notes if you wish.
🎧 Thank you very much.
 
[021] 220 ielts part 3 - 04
 
🎧 Alright Maryam, now I would like to ask a few more detailed questions about the same topic. Is that library useful for children, or for adults?
🎧 Well, seeing as it was located on a university campus, it was specifically for student's and professor's use. But there were some major children's novels and works in the collection obviously.
🎧 How do you think that library has changed?
🎧 Well I haven't been there for many years now, but I have been told that it's expanded. The building has been expanded. I'm sure this is due to the numerous books they must have accumulated since my last visit. And also, I've been told that the whole library has been digitalised and the books are now available as e-books.
🎧 Alright. What skills should a librarian have?
🎧 Well I think as a librarian, it's a pre-requisite to have a good knowledge of literature, and also of the books available in the library you're working at. I think another thing that helps is patience and people-skills. You have to manage the people attending the library, trying to keep the peace of the environment, trying to keep it a calm atmosphere. And also, I think perhaps enjoying solitude at long stretches of time is also a benefit.
🎧 Is it important to take children to libraries?
🎧 Well, I think it's very important to introduce children to books as soon as possible, as early on in life as you can. Of course you can do this by buying books for your children, but obviously you would never be able to buy all the books available at a library for your child. So yes, I think taking children to libraries to enhance their knowledge and their curiosity, and exposing them to the variety available there is very important.
🎧 Thank you very much Maryam. This is the end of the interview, and have a very nice day.
🎧 Thank you very much. 
 
[022] 220 ielts part 1 - 05
 
🎧 Good morning, please come in and have a seat
🎧 Good morning, ma'am. Thanks.
🎧 May I have you full name?
🎧 Sure, my name is Laleh Kashani.
🎧 Thank you Laleh. Can I have a look at your passport?
🎧 Sure, there you go.
🎧 Alright Laleh, I'm going to ask you a few personal questions. Do you watch TV a lot?
🎧 Well, not really. I'm not a couch potato. I don't think I am a TV addict but when I get back home in the evening I really like to lie down and relax, switch onto a channel and probably watch TV series or news channels.
🎧 What do you usually watch on TV?
🎧 Well, that's interesting, in fact a very good question. Let me see, well, most of the time I really like to follow the current news, so basically I watch news channels. Probably, late at night I switch on the channel which has TV series
🎧 Alright, what's the most popular program in your country?
🎧 Well, I suppose among the people, probably TV series and documentaries are the most popular TV programs. Moreover, I suppose many people also are interested in following the news, so many of them in fact, follow the current news through TV channels.
🎧 What are some of the disadvantages of TV in your opinion?
🎧 Well in my opinion, there might be some disadvantages, in my view let's say, It takes the time of the people and the families especially when family member sit together, watching TV instead of having interaction conversation, they have to just focus their attention on what's going on TV, so actually it gives less time to family members to be together and have friendly chat ,and also for the kids, I think, it will not be that beneficial to sit in front of TV, doing nothing, just gazing at the tube, and it might be quite destructive for them ,makes them less active, makes them in fact passive. And I can say taking their health issue into consideration makes them fat and obese.
🎧 We are going to move onto a different subject now. Do you use the Internet much during a day?
🎧 Well I can say yes. I use most of the time during my office on the net because due to nature of my job I have to surf the net, find out different answers to many questions and different subjects. So, most of the time I spend my day on the net.
🎧 What website have you recently visited?
🎧 Basically! surf Google and Yahoo. Yes, I can tell you that the most recent one that I have visited was the yahoo site when in fact few hours back I had to send an urgent e-mail to my colleagues overseas, so I switched on the net and I got connected, I composed my own mail , and in fact through mail I sent my message to my friend.
🎧 What are some advantages of interne?
🎧 I suppose there are too many to be counted. In fact, intemet has made the interactions among the people very close and it brought the people close together and it covers the distances. As you know probably, Now that the whole World is called the global village because all the interactions and communications are among the people and in fact with only a single click on the net, you can get connected to your friends on the other side of the globe, you can also send and receive e-mails and also you can have also access to lots of information
🎧 Do people in your country use intemet a lot?
🎧 I can say more or less yes people use intemet a lot because the young mostly use Internet for chatting, for surfing, for sending and receiving e-mails ,and of course the organizations and offices use intemet for official correspondence.
🎧 Thank you, Laleh. Now I'm going to give you a topic card which I like you to talk about 2 minutes, please take 1 minute to study topic card and here is a piece of paper and a pen if you need to write anything down.
🎧 Thanks.
 
[023] 220 ielts part 3 - 05
 
🎧 Alright, thank you Laleh, now E m going to ask you some more detailed questions on the same topic. What do you think is the importance of the museums?
🎧 Well in fact, I have never given it much thought, but I suppose the importance of museums are far too many probably to educate people of the ancient civilizations and also to familiarize them with different life styles that have our ancestors, their traditions and I believe in general museum takes us back in time to different eras.
🎧 Thank you. What types of museums are popular in your country?
🎧 I can say that different types of museums which are quite popular if you want to name a few, I have to say that National Jewelry Museum, Museum Of Contemporary Art, Carpet Museum, The Museum Of Ancient Anthropology and there are also different museums exhibiting different items inside the kings palaces.
🎧 Why is it important in your opinion to visit museums?
🎧 Well it is really important to visit museums, especially to educate our kids and children and also people at different levels because museum is generally exhibiting different items to help people to get to know their ancient cultures and civilizations and in fact as I told before it takes us back to different times and different eras and there are also so many old and ancient items on display which are in fact pertained to our ancestors that are really unique.
🎧 Alright thank you very much Laleh, it is the end of your speaking test.
🎧 Thank you very much. Have a nice day. 
 
[024] 220 ielts part 1 - 06
 
🎧 Hello.
🎧 Hello.
🎧 Come in please and have a seat.
🎧 Thank you.
🎧 May I have your full name, please?
🎧 My name is Ladan Sariri.
🎧 Alright, Ladan .Can I look at your passport, please?
🎧 Yes, there you go.
🎧 Thanks, all right Ladan, where are you from?
🎧 I'm from Tehran which is the capital of Iran, I was born and raised here and lived here all my life, it's a very big city but I enjoy living here.
🎧 What's the weather like in your home town?
🎧 Well, in Tehran the weather is very diverse. We have 4 seasons exactly; it can be very hot in the summer, very hot and dry, and extremely cold in the winter. The temperature can go down to minus 17 and we used to have a lot of snow that stopped for a while , but in recent years it's been snowing more and more
🎧 Ok, thanks Ladan, does the weather affect your mood?
🎧 I think the weather probably affects everybody's mood. Some people feel more energetic and cheerful under blue sky with the sun shining, and perhaps the wet weather dampens their mood and makes some feel depressed but there are many people who prefer you call it rainy weather.
🎧 What is your favorite season of the year?
🎧 I personally really enjoy autumn because I think everything looks more beautiful. The colors are warm, the trees look beautiful, the weather is mild. It is neither too hot nor cold.
🎧 Thanks. Ladan, what do you enjoy doing in hot weather?
🎧 Well actually, the heat doesn't agree with me and I don't feel very comfortable in hot weather. But if! had to choose an activity, I suppose it would be something relaxing, may be a short walk somewhere, may be sitting in café outside, and having a cool drink.
🎧 O.K. Now let's move to another topic, do you watch TV a lot?
🎧 Well, if! have time, yes, but I'm quite busy with my studies at moment
🎧 Ok, what do you usually watch on TV?
🎧 I enjoy documentaries. I tend to sit and watch the documentaries when they happen to be on because it's about life, it's about reality and you learn something from these programs, other than that I enjoy comedy and I usually try to keep up with the news.
🎧 Alright, Ladan. What are the most popular programs in your country?
🎧 I think in Iran I would have to say, at the top of the list would be sports, and then may be these TV series that seem to be very popular with families, they tend to be quite late at night around 10 o'clock, so that the whole family can sit and watch it.
🎧 Alright, Ladan, what are some disadvantages of TV?
🎧 I think TV is a good thing all in all in moderations. I think maybe has decreased the amount of interaction among families have with each other because while they are at home, they sit in front of television and focus on one program instead of talking to each other, exchanging their daily activities and experiences and children's television should be supervised if not, they probably will spend too much time in front of it and this stops some from being physically and mentally active elsewhere.
🎧 Ok, thanks Ladan. NOW, let's move onto a topic. I would like you to describe a pet that you or someone else you know used to have, you have one minute to think about the topic and then I want you to talk about 2 minutes, here is paper and pencil you can write your notes if you wish.
🎧 Thank you. 
 
[025] 220 ielts part 3 - 06
 
🎧 Ok Ladan, I would like to ask you a few more detailed questions about the same topic. Why do you think some people keep pets?
🎧 Well, the reason for some people is because they are very fond of animals. May be they've been brought up with animals in a house, so it's just a part of their normal life. I think for others, it is because of their loneliness, and the end of the day when you come home if it depresses you there is no one there, it's good to have a living breathing animal waiting for you.
🎧 what kinds of pets are popular in your country?
🎧 I' m afraid some animals in general are not popular. Domesticated animals like pets are not very popular. It is not in our culture to keep animals in the house. However, there are many people who own dogs. We have quite a few dog lovers, cats less and less, there are people who feed them occasionally outside of their home. I would say perhaps an animal with less fuss and less fur like parrots or goldfish is the popular type in my country.
🎧 Why do you think some people hate keeping pets, while others like it?
🎧 Again, I think that goes back to what you are brought up with and personal feeling towards pets .I think one reason people might not like keeping pets is the trouble they have to go through in order to look after the pet properly. Of course once you take in a pet, you are obliged to look after it properly, feed it on the regular basis, make sure it has a clean dry place to sleep and also make sure it gets enough activities during the day.
🎧 Thanks Ladan, one more question. What are the limitations in your country for keeping pets?
🎧 Well as I mentioned before because of our culture ,perhaps our religion, people who keep dogs have a pretty difficult time because dogs need exercise; you can't keep them in the house all day long, you need to take them out for a walk. Perhaps people in the streets would not welcome this. In fact I think they are extremely frowned upon. I think another issue might be the expense of keeping a pet . Ever since a dog, well there is not dog food in a can, ready available in every supermarket so you would have to spend more money and time in making for your pet dog.
🎧 Thank you very much Ladan. This is the end of your interview, have a nice time
🎧 Thank you
 
[026] 220 ielts part 1 - 07
 
🎧 Hello, come in please
🎧 Thank you very much
🎧 Alright. May I have your full name?
🎧 My name is Sogol Bakhtiari.
🎧 Alright, thanks Sogol. Can I take a look at your passport?
🎧 Of course, here you are.
🎧 Alright, Sogol .Do like shopping, and why?
🎧 I think I do like shopping quite a lot. Some people might call me shopaholic. I think most women are like me. We tend to buy impulsively. We are impulsive buyers, this means we sometimes we buy things that we don't need, but we enjoy doing that.
🎧 Ok, thanks. What time do you do the shopping?
🎧 As I work from 8:00 to 5:00 in the afternoon, I tend to do my shopping on the way back home or during the weekends .If I need something urgently, I might even take my lunch break and quickly go to buy to the place I need and buy the things I need.
🎧 Ok Sogol, do you ever shop on the Internet?
🎧 I don't think I would like to. I never have. For me shopping is a personal experience. I like to see what I am choosing and about to buy. Seeing the photograph I don't think does the same thing. It's not the same experience.
🎧 Thanks. let's move onto the topic of clothing. What type of clothes do you like to wear?
🎧 I like comfortable clothes something easy to be in for the whole day.
🎧 O.K. What kind of clothes do people in your country usually wears?
🎧 It depends on their age and also it depends on their jobs sometimes even, but I think you'll find in Tehran, younger people like to wear trendy clothes. They like to wear jeans and colorful coats and t-shirts. Yes, I think younger people enjoy younger fashion like everyone in the world. They prefer to dress in a sporty manner but of course for formal occasions the men will put on a very nice suit and ladies will wear an evening dress.
🎧 Do you think people behave differently in different kinds of clothes?
🎧 I think they probably do. If you wear something smart and formal I think you subconsciously feel that you're supposed to behave dignified may be and then you might feel important. If you are wearing something comfortable and sporty every day, you probably behave more casual as well and then you'll probably be more approachable at the same time.
🎧 Now let's move onto the topic card. I would like you to describe one of the shopping centers you often go to. So you have to talk about the topic for about 2 minutes and you have 1 minute to think about the topic here is a paper and a pencil to write down whatever you wish and then you may start.
🎧 Thank you. 
 
[027] 220 ielts part 3 - 07
 
🎧 Alright Sogol, now I would like to ask you a few more detailed questions related to the same topic. Will smaller shops survive in the current business system?
🎧 Actually, I have actually never thought about it before, but I'd assume they would especially in rural areas where demand for the shopping centers is probably zero; however, population is growing and there are new products every day, so I think they will diminish in numbers in more urban areas, but however not completely disappear from the face of the earth. A lot of people still prefer to go to the local shop to buy what they are looking for and support their family businesses.
🎧 What are the differences of modem shopping malls and smaller shops?
🎧 Well, again, I haven't given this much thought before, but I suppose modem shopping mall is quite inviting with its huge structure, its modem architecture and there is so much to choose from as oppose smaller local shops. I think this abundance of choice might be a bit confusing at times, smaller shops tend to store less items when you go in and you don't have a huge variety to confuse you and of course the appearance is much more traditional.
🎧 Ok, thanks and the last question. What is the trend of future shopping centers?
🎧 Well, in my opinion, I think the future of shopping centers; they will be fewer in numbers, but probably a lot bigger. I think this would because people want to go to one place and buy whatever they need. There's also this growing trend of intemet shopping but I don't think interne shopping will take over completely because I think people generally prefer to see and see whatever about the purchases before making a decision
🎧 Thank you very much Sogol. This is the end of your interview .Have a nice day

[028] 220 ielts part 1 - 08
 
🎧 Good morning.
🎧 Good morning, ma'am. Please come in and have a seat, May I have your full name?
🎧 Well my name is Taraneh Sadeghian.
🎧 Thank you Tranah. May I have a look at your passport?
🎧 Sure, here you are.
🎧 Thank you, ok Taraneh. I'm going to ask you a few questions, do you like to travel?
🎧 In fact I can tell you I love traveling, I'm keen on traveling because it gives me the opportunity to visit different places, meet new people and in general get new experience. 
🎧 Do you like to travel alone or with your friends?
🎧 Well, it depends, I can say most of the tome I really like to travel with my friends because I think there is more fun to it, however I think there are some times when! think I'd better be myself to be relaxed and fresh, be away from the busy life, so sometimes I do prefer to be alone.
🎧 Right and what do you usually do when you first arrive at a new place?
🎧 Well, it's not an easy question that I have never thought about it before, the first thing I do when I first arrive at a new place is probably taking a shower and have a cup of coffee and relax and of course it depends on the distance if it is a short distance trip, I probably might not be that much tired to sleep or take much time to relax, but in a longer trip I suppose I will have a long sleep, take shower, and have a cup of coffee
🎧 I see, what's the best place you have ever visited?
🎧 I have visited so many places, but the best one that I have ever visited probably is 'Opera House' in Sydney. I can tell it was almost the last November, I had a trip with my family to Sydney and I visited Opera House. I had always wanted to visit that place since I was a child and I was really happy to visit that place because it's one of the world famous place, so it was a large, I can say huge building. In fact it was a huge hall made for performing different sorts of art and artistic works. It had a big auditorium, several steps because of performing many arts, so I really like it.
🎧 Ok, Taraneh, now we are going to move onto a new subject, can you tell something about transportation in your home town?
🎧 I can tell you in my home town, there are probably several different types of transportation systems, well I can tell you that most of the people use their own cars, they tend to use their private cars, however many people use taxis and buses to commute to work. And I can tell you recently, they have also developed the subway system which quite makes transportation smooth.
🎧 Is there much traffic in your city and if so how can this problem be solved?
🎧 Well, of course, a huge population live in my hometown, Tehran, is the capital of Iran, I can tell you we do have a lot of traffic. Traffic is congested, that are too many cars in the roads, and in the streets and I can tell you that most of the people use their own private cars that is another reason that adds to it, and also there are too many single passenger cars, so I do think that we will have a lot problems probably some of them can't be done to solve this problem is to construct more roads and highways and I suppose that government is required to encourage people to carpool or use more public transportation.
🎧 All right thank you. Now, we are going to move onto the second part of the test. I'm going to give you a topic card, you can take I minute to have a look and then also take down some notes, here is a pen and paper and then we will start.
🎧 Thank you. 
 
[029] 220 ielts part 3 - 08
 
🎧 Alright, thank you, Taraneh. Now I'm going to ask you some detailed questions on the same topic. What musical instruments are popular in your country?
🎧 Well, in my country, I suppose the piano, the guitar; perhaps the drum is the most popular among the younger people. However, many older people tend to play eastern musical instruments such as the Sitar which is a string instrument and DAFF which is percussion. 
🎧 Do you think people have tendency to Western music and if so why?
🎧 Well I'm not expert but I can say, I do think still people have more tendency toward western music especially the younger generation, in spite of the fact that Iranian Pop and music styles have developed and improved a lot, still I suppose because of so much variety in western music, people tend to listen to western music.
🎧 Alright and do you think children should be encouraged to play music from the early childhood?
🎧 Like any other activities, I suppose playing music is better to be encouraged from early childhood-from early age because children are capable of absorbing things very quickly and easily and they can develop it further with their practice, with their talent more quicker than adults and probably the later ages.
🎧 What is the best way to learn to play an instrument?
🎧 Probably the best way to play music is registering in a prominent and leading institute and with the help of a skilled, experienced ,I can say, professional music instructor probably that would be the best way because I've heard around it from some people they go back to their talent , they are self-tutored, I believe, they don't develop further , and I have also seen the people who are talented and started learning musical instrument with the help of a capable music instructor and I can say they have improve much further.
🎧 Ok, Tareneh. What do you think about the role of music in people's lives?
🎧 Well it is multifaceted; music plays a great role in people's lives basically. It depends on the situation and the occasion; in sad situation, it can calm them down in time listening to light music is very soothing and relaxing. On the other hand, on happy occasions, it lifts their spirits, it really helps them to rev- up and it is very relaxing, but I suppose it can have destructive effect on the younger generation and children, it may encourage them to drug abuse or some violence.
🎧 Alright, Taraneh, thank you very much. Your speaking test is now over.
🎧 Thank you, have a nice day. 
 
[030] 220 ielts part 1 - 09
 
🎧 Good afternoon
🎧 Good afternoon ma'am.
🎧 Please come in and a have a seat.
🎧 Thank you.
🎧 May! have your full name?
🎧 Sure, my name is Pooneh Saadatmand.
🎧 Can I have a look at your passport?
🎧 Sure there you go, thank you.
🎧 Alright Pooneh, I'm going to ask you a few questions. Do you read books and if you do what kind of books do you read?
🎧 Well, I read books but I'm not really a big fan of reading books. I read books whenever I have time, basically my favorite types of books are fictions and sometimes novels and sometimes I do like to read historical books
🎧 Well, did you read books when you were a child?
🎧 I can say absolutely yes because my parents , in fact, develop the habit of reading books in me since I was a child, I remember at that time I wasn't a literate person, my dad used to read some folk stories.
🎧 I see, do children like reading nowadays?
🎧 Well I'm not so sure, but from what I see around me, I can tell you that children are not basically that interested in reading books as opposed to my time. Probably because there are so many games to play, computer games to play, internet games to play and that is why probably that they are not that interested in reading.
🎧 Pooneh, would you give you a book as a gift?
🎧 Well, certainly. Book is a treasure, I can say, it is a valuable gift I can give to people I like especially my friends because I suppose a gift enhances my friends' information and it is something they can really keep it forever and in fact, I believe, it is a good, I will leave a good memory of myself with my friends.
🎧 Thank you Pooneh. Now we are going to move on another subject, do you like music? 
🎧 I can tell you that honestly, I'm a big fan of music I have spent much of my time listening to different kinds of music; western music, Iranian, pop songs. Yes totally I can tell, I really am interested in listening to music.
🎧 What kind of music do you like?
🎧 There is a variety of music I really like. I can tell you from folk music, western music, pop music which these days is very popular, so, I'm a big fan of almost all types of music
🎧 Can you tell me what kind of music is popular in your country?
🎧 Well in recent years I can tell you, pop music is probably very popular among the people especially the younger generation, but those days, I remember, in the past, people had more tendencies towards western music.
🎧 Alright, Now I'm going to give you a topic card which you have to talk about in 2 minutes, please take 1 minute to study it and here's a piece of paper and pen if you need to take some notes.
🎧 Thanks. 
 
[031] 220 ielts part 3 - 09
 
🎧 Alright, Now I'm going to ask you some detailed questions on the same subject. What kind of toys do you think are more suitable for kids?
🎧 Well, I suppose, it depends on the age. If they are toddlers or kids probably something pretty safe, such as stuffed toys, dolls something without jagged edges or without sharp edges. Something really keep them away from dangers, but when they grow older, I think, when they go to 5 or 6 years, it's better to give them something more educational to keep their mind more active, give them some more challenging games such as board games, chess , etc.
🎧 Do you think parents should choose children's toys?
🎧 Obviously, I suppose parents should supervise the kind of toys the children use because children are not mature enough to recognize the rights and wrongs that is sometimes, they go to types of toys that are not quite good for them, it's dangerous and it's not safe; some guns are made. So, I suppose it's better to have supervision over the type of toys basically they use. Especially these days, there are different types of computer games in the market; so definitely, in that sense it has to filtered and supervised.
🎧 How has the type of toys that the children play with change in recent years in your opinion?
🎧 I can tell you it has dramatically changed since I was a child, I can tell you those days, I used to play safe toys such as stuffed dolls, teddy bears, balls, plastic balls and something really safe. However, these days I notice that younger generation, children and different ages tend to play with modern toys from gun shots to different toys and they also spend time playing different type of violent game which is not at all useful for them. So I suppose, unfortunately, there is a tendency towards more from violent games to dangerous games these days.
🎧 Thank you very much, Pooneh, your speaking test now is now over.
🎧 Thank you very much and have a nice day.
 
[032] 220 ielts part 1 - 10
 
🎧 Good Afternoon. Come in please.
🎧 Good Afternoon. Thank you.
🎧 Have a seat.
🎧 Thank you.
🎧 Well, can I have a look at your passport?
🎧 Yes, of course.
🎧 Thanks. And may I have your full name please?
🎧 My name is Naghmeh Sadeghian.
🎧 OK Naghmeh, it's a nice name.
🎧 Thank you.
🎧 What is the meaning of your name?
🎧 Well, my name means song or melody in the Persian language, in Farsi.
🎧 OK, thanks. Do you think your name has an impact on your character and personality?
🎧 Well I haven't given this much thought, but I think maybe because it means melody and song, it affects people's perception of my character. Perhaps this sort of cheerful name makes them expect a cheerful character, which I try to be, but obviously am not all the time. But no, I don't think it affects my character as a person.
🎧 Alright Naghmeh. Let's move on to another question. Is your health important to you?
🎧 I think everybody's health is important to them. l think we all try to do our best to lead a healthy life, but whether or not we succeed is a different question.
🎧 What do you do to improve your health?
🎧 Not as much as I should, to be honest. I don't think I eat as healthily as I should, and I probably need to exercise a lot more, and possibly cut down on my caffeine intake.
🎧 What is the major health concern in your country at the moment?
🎧 I think like many other countries globally, our main health concern must be the N1H1 virus, which is also known as swine flu. The reason being that apparently it is taking on the form of a pandemic, which is very worrying due to the large population in my country. I do believe that the government is trying to control this with the guidelines and help of the World Health Organisation, and hopefully this will be under control soon.
🎧 OK, thanks Naghmeh. Do you like cooking?
🎧 I do. I do like cooking, but unfortunately due to my being a student I don't find enough time to cook as regularly as I should.
🎧 OK, thanks. What kind of food do you like?
🎧 Well, I enjoy a vast majority of the foods that I've tasted and experienced. I'm very fond of my country's local cuisine, but I also really enjoy a nice Italian or Chinese meal.
🎧 OK, thanks. Naghmeh, what are the most famous dishes of your country?
🎧 Well, it would be difficult to name a few famous dishes or specialties, because I think each area of the country has its own specialty which people enjoy. But I think on an international level, I could perhaps say Chelo Kebab which consists of grilled meat accompanied by rice. Chelo means rice, and kebab means grilled meat. This meat can be any form. It can be beef, or lamb, chicken, or even minced meat, normally with a combination of onion. Traditionally the meat is pulled onto skewers and cooked over a charcoal fire.
🎧 OK thanks. And tell me, in your country have people's eating habits changed?
🎧 Well I honestly don't think that this is just limited to my country. I think over the ages, people's living habits have changed, and also life has taken on a much faster pace. So I think that has reflected, maybe not very positively, on people's eating habits. You tend to catch a meal on the run. A lot of times a lot of people are constantly in a hurry, so they can't sit down and enjoy a proper meal during the day. Of course it's good to take the time out and do this at least once a day in order to help your digestion and also focus on healthier foods.
🎧 OK, thank you very much Naghmeh. Now we move on to another topic. I would like you to describe an old person you've met. And in fact you have to talk about the topic for about two minutes. You have once minute to think about the topic. Here is a paper and a pencil. You can write down notes if you wish.
🎧 Thank you.
 
[033] 220 ielts part 3 - 10
 
🎧 Alright Naghmeh, now I would like to ask a few more detailed questions about the same topic. What are the problems of old people in your country?
🎧 I think the problem of old people worldwide, irrespective of their country, is that perhaps, in some cases, they don't receive the attention and respect that they should after all the hard work that they've done. I think old people tend to suffer from loneliness. Obviously this is not very beneficial to them because it affects their health. Also, there are cases obviously, where old people are distant from their immediate family or they have none left, and therefore they are put into nursing homes. In some cases, this might even happen with immediate family available.
🎧 What do most old people do in your country?
🎧 Old people in my country I think enjoy getting together with their family and exchanging stories, and advising the youngers in their family how to lead their lives properly. I think the old people in my country become very sociable. They going out a lot. If they're healthy enough, I think they all like to go to the park, meet new people. Basically, I think they enjoy any activity that involves interaction with other people.
🎧 Do you think old people should be kept in nursing homes?
🎧 Well actually, I don't agree with nursing homes unless it's the last option. Old people should be taken care of by the people that they've taken care of before, such as their children and close relatives. But of course there are exceptions where people are too ill, or they need special care, in which case a well-equipped environment would be to their benefit.
🎧 And the last question: What can the government do to improve the life of senior citizens?
🎧 I think governments can do a lot by allocating funds to develop social gathering places for the elderly where they can meet and convene with their peers. I also think that the elderly should have access to free medical treatment and medication, because at the end of the day this is the generation that raised all these doctors and people in the society. And I think also another point might be for the government to improve the conditions in nursing homes, so that they're all uniformly equipped to take care of those who need to be there.
🎧 Thank you very much Naghmeh. This is the end of the interview. Thank you very much and have a nice day.
🎧 Thank you very much. 