What's up, everyone? My name is Carter. 
And today you're going to learn how to talk about your daily routine. 
Not only that, but you're going to learn many different activities and fun things that people do not even just fun things, but things that people do in Vietnam. 
So this will be really useful for you to make plans with someone for you to talk about what you did on the weekend for you to simply make small talk with other people. 
So first, I'm going to tell you guys about my daily routine in Hanoi. 
And spoiler alert. 
It's really nothing too special. 
It's very normal, I would say. 
I wake up if it's in the winter, then it can be pretty hard to get out of bed because your bed is so warm, outside is so cold. 
Even in summer in Vietnam, it can be hard to get out of your room because you have the air conditioner on and it feels so cool and outside of your room is really hot. 
But yeah, so I wake up and then I usually go outside and get some sunlight into my eyes. 
I'm not the best sleeper. 
I have trouble sleeping. 
So I researched online to go outside, get sun in your eyes in the morning, and also try to raise your body temperature by doing some exercise. 
So sometimes I will walk to the rooftop of my apartment building through the stairs from a very low floor to the top floor and that is my exercise. 
And then I get the sunlight on the rooftop. 
So after I walk from my floor to the rooftop, I'm usually feeling pretty, pretty hot from the exercise. 
And then I stand on the rooftop for about five or 10 minutes, get the sunlight. 
Then I go back down. 
I brew a coffee with the Vietnamese phin. 
In English, maybe it's just called the Vietnamese coffee filter, or we call it Vietnamese drip coffee. 
So I brew one of those with a little bit of condensed milk and a pinch of salt. 
And then while that's brewing, I will maybe go on my computer, plan my day, check the tasks that I have to do. 
Usually some form of work, because early in the morning I'm still in a relaxed mood, and in the morning, I feel like it's easier to focus. 
So when my coffee's ready, I drink my coffee and then sometimes I will do a quick workout. 
Like before it was only a short, small workout and then after I drink the coffee, I'm like, Ooh, I'm pumped up. 
So then maybe I'll do a workout. 
And then after that, often I will eat and then go to work. 
So what I eat in the morning is pretty much only two things. 
It is either phở or oatmeal. 
It depends on what I feel like, but to be honest, I feel like I could eat phở every day and not get tired of it. 
Well, I do eat phở every day and I don't really feel tired of it, so... 
I don't know, there's something magic about that dish, to be honest... 
Because you can eat it so often and you don't get tired of it. 
It's crazy. 
So yeah, I eat, I go to work. 
my job is at a middle school. 
That's all I will say. 
After work, I usually come straight home because at that time it's rush hour. 
And rush hour guys is usually between like five and six. 
It can go a little bit longer, 6:30, but that's when the traffic is the worst. 
And then I drive home. 
By the way, we can call that a "commute". 
So my commute from home to work is not too far. 
So then I go home, relax a little bit, and then, for dinner, I will often order food or I will go out for dinner with a friend. 
I don't often cook at home, to be honest, I should cook at home more, but it just feels so much more convenient and still cheap to eat out or order food. 
then after dinner I usually work on my YouTube channel until about 10 or 11 o'clock. 
Then I just start to relax and get ready for bed. 
And uh... 
Oh! I forgot one important detail of my routine At the end of the night, I always play with my two cats. 
Tí and Tèo I will show you guys these cats on a livestream but yeah, they are brothers. 
I love them so much. 
they're awesome cats and they really help me relax at the end of the day. 
Yeah, they're really awesome. 
So that is my daily routine on a normal weekday, nothing too interesting, right? It's nothing special. 
I think many people just, you know, most people live lives like that. 
We get up, we do this thing, we go to work, come home, we do that thing, and the fun things we do are in between all of the things we must do, right? So on the weekend, sometimes I will, So on the weekend, sometimes I will, go for a walk around Hoàn Kiếm Lake, sometimes I will play badminton with a friend, go out to a cafe with a friend, maybe go to a nice restaurant in Westlake because Westlake has a lot of international restaurants and I really like international food like Mexican food or Indian food. 
So now I'm going to talk about activities that I see people doing a lot in Hanoi and these things. 
If you live in Ho Chi Minh City, if you live in some other big city or even in the countryside, you can use, you can use these things to talk about what you do So for example, in Hanoi, you can go to the night market, you can wander around there, you don't you don't necessarily need to buy anything, but you can just take a look at what people are selling. 
You can go to a cafe and just hang out. 
So one of the great things about cafes is that you don't really need any reason to go to a cafe, right? You can go there to work or you can just call your friend. 
You want to hang out? Sure. 
Okay, let's go to a cafe and then just sit at the cafe and enjoy a coffee, maybe a tea. 
Many people gather at cafes and they don't even, like, talk to each other. 
Right? They just sit there on their phones, but at least they're still together. 
So they enjoy just being next to one another. 
What else? I see many young kids rollerblading. 
Maybe some of you call this roller skating. 
I think it's the same thing. 
But in Canada we call it rollerblading. 
And they do this in the parks and they go really fast. 
It's actually really fun if you try it. 
I notice in Vietnam, pretty pretty much only kids do the rollerblading. 
But, if you're an adult and you want to try it, try it. 
It's seriously, it's a lot of fun and it's a really good workout. 
When tourists come to Hanoi, they can go or any city, When I say Hanoi, I mean anywhere, basically, in Vietnam. 
They can go on a food tour, they can visit the temple of literature, or they can go to the prison museum. 
It's definitely a few things to do. 
Other things I often see people doing are sitting on the sidewalk and eating street food. 
To be honest, personally, I'm not a huge fan of street food because most of it is like processed and fried and just not really healthy for you. 
Like those, um, those meat sticks. 
Not, not, not, "thịt xiên", And, but the ones where it's like a stick and you put the different meats on it, like the balls, the pink balls, the yellow balls. 
I don't even know what those are called, but I see they're very common, So yeah, you could chill on the street and eat that street food. 
And so those are a lot of things you could use to make plans to talk about what you did on the weekend for different sports. 
We can say, you know, play football, play badminton, play table tennis. 
We don't use hit, right? We don't say hit tennis. 
when we're talking about walks, you can say go for a walk, have a walk, go for a stroll, go for a run, go for a jog. 
That all sounds very natural. 
You can say go jogging. 
So, for example. 
Oh, Tomorrow I'm going to go for a jog. 
Or tomorrow I'm going to go jogging. 
Both of them are totally okay. 
Oh, yeah. 
And that reminds me some other things you can do. 
You can go workout at the gym, you can go out for dinner at a restaurant. 
So there's just so many activities that I'm sure I cannot name them all. 
But hopefully I've been able to name a lot of them that will be really useful for you guys if there are any activities that I didn't name. 
Feel free to post it in the comments. 
tell us like what you do on a regular day. 
You could practice writing. 
You know, first I do this, then after that I do this. 
Sometimes I do this. 
If it's something, I'll do that right? So, for example, I often go for a walk in the evening, but if it's raining, I'll stay home and read something like that. 
So, guys, that's it for this podcast. 
But if you want to check out my live stream, then click this video. 
This was the first live stream I've ever done. 
I forgot to post the live chat. 
So next stream you will be able to see the live chat, but you can expect me to be streaming every Sunday at 10 a.m. 
and I will post that for you guys. 
So yeah, thank you so much for listening, for watching this podcast. 
I hope it was useful for you and I will see you in the next video. 
Have a great day.