What's up, everyone?
Today's podcast is going to be a little bit different than my other podcasts.
So today's podcast, the format is going to be different. As you can see in the title, we have a topic. So today we're going to talk about how to talk about your hometown and basically how to talk about cities.
While I talk about these things, I'm going to be using language that you can understand, but also I will be using higher level words like intermediate level and above. I'm going to use words that are very natural in this situation. So they're words that if you talk about this topic, I think it's very likely you will use these words.
So learning this can be useful for doing things like telling someone about your hometown, talking about a place you visited, and just talking about the city in general.
When I say these words, you'll see in the subtitles that they are highlighted. Since there are English and Vietnamese subtitles, the highlight will match in both. So if there is one word like "infrastructure" in English, then that word will be highlighted, and the Vietnamese word will also be highlighted.
If you're listening to this podcast on Spotify, then of course you won't be able to see that. But you can always go to the YouTube video and check out the words that you don't understand.
I think one of the best ways to listen to this podcast is on YouTube. Just turn it on and listen to it. You don't really have to watch it, but when a word comes up that you don't understand, you can just check the subtitles, and there it is.
Also, in the description below, you can find a full transcript for this podcast. A transcript means everything I said. You can find that in the description below, along with the vocabulary words that we learned and phrases.
Now, one thing I want you guys to remember is that this is not an IELTS lesson. It's not like an IELTS Speaking lesson. This is just me talking about cities in a natural way that you can use in your daily life.
The way I'm going to talk about these cities is this:
First, I'm going to talk about big cities like Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh City.
Then, in the second part, I'm going to talk about smaller cities, villages, and towns in the countryside.
So whether you are from a big city or a small city, this podcast will be very useful for you.
First, I'm going to talk about Hanoi.
This is the city that I live in right now, and this is by far the biggest city I've ever lived in in my life.
I believe the population of Hanoi is around 7 to 8 million, and it's a pretty big city. I believe they are expanding the limits of the city to other areas, which is often what happens with cities as they kind of swallow up these other areas that are being developed.
The layout of Hanoi is, of course, we've got the center. There are many districts around this center area, like Hai Bà Trưng District and Hoàn Kiếm.
In the middle, there's a lake called Hoàn Kiếm Lake. If we go up north, we have West Lake. I believe those are the two main lakes.
There's also a river that goes through Hanoi called the Red River. I know in Vietnamese the translation is "Pink River," but in English we call it the Red River.
If you go to Hanoi and you go to the tourist area called the Old Quarter, you will notice that the roads there are different than outside of the Old Quarter.
The architecture is also different because when the French were there, they had a big influence on the architecture.
I did a bit of research before doing this podcast, so if some things are a little bit inaccurate, you can let me know in the comments. Again, this isn't a history podcast, but just an English podcast. So some things I may be wrong about.
In the Old Quarter, there are a lot of narrow roads and alleys. I find those really interesting because in those alleys and narrow roads, there are a lot of hidden places like shops, places to get a haircut, and places to eat.
The feeling in the Old Quarter is really unique. It has a vintage, old-fashioned style because they want to preserve the history in that area, and I think that's great.
Also, many of the streets in the Old Quarter are named after what they sell. For example, I think there's a street called Hàng Bạc (Silver Street), and many others.
So if you're talking about these streets, you can say that a lot of the streets are named after what they sell.
The roads are narrow, there are quite a lot of people selling things on the street, and there are a lot of tourists in that area.
If you leave the Old Quarter, you'll notice the roads become wider and it gets a bit more open. It's a bit less congested and full of traffic.
So if we move on and talk a little bit about the infrastructure in Hanoi...
Infrastructure is kind of like the skeleton of the city. It's what keeps everything together and helps the city function.
For example, the sewers are part of the infrastructure, and so is the electricity system.
In Hanoi, they have a lot of buses, like city buses. They also have the Skytrain. I think it's called the Skytrain.
This is new. It was under construction for a long time, but they finally finished it, and I think a lot of people are happy with it.
Me? I've never ridden the Skytrain yet, but I heard it's pretty convenient to get from one side of the city to the other.
Well, actually, maybe it doesn't go all the way across the city. I should know this, but I'm not totally sure.
This type of public transport can be very useful because during rush hour, the traffic can be crazy.
Sometimes it gets completely gridlocked. Like, there is a complete traffic jam and you can't move for 20 minutes.
So taking the Skytrain could be pretty convenient.
Now, some pros and cons to living in Hanoi.
Some of the pros, I would say, are that the culture is really historic and interesting.
The food is delicious. If you're someone who prefers salty food over sweet food, then you might like the food in Hanoi more.
If you like sweet food, you might like the food in Ho Chi Minh City.
Another advantage is that the cost of living is relatively cheap.
It's more expensive than other places in Vietnam, but compared to Canada or many other countries outside Vietnam, the cost of living is very good and very reasonable.
Some cons would definitely be the traffic.
The traffic is sometimes very stressful and very crowded, and I think that's the same in Ho Chi Minh City and many other big cities.
Traffic is a common problem in many big cities around the world.
Another problem is pollution.
There are days when there is quite a bit of pollution, and if you can stay inside, it's probably better to stay indoors.
Another thing is noise.
Hanoi is a dense city. That means lots of people live close to each other, and noise can be a problem.
Sometimes you hear loud motorbikes at three in the morning.
You can hear your neighbors if they have babies.
But these are all problems that every big city has.
Most people would say, "If you don't want to deal with noise, then just don't live in a big city."
They have a point.
But of course, going back to the pros, I think Hanoi has amazing energy.
When I go outside on the street and there are people walking around, cars everywhere... you can really feel the energy.
That is one thing I really love about Hanoi.
And that's one thing that, when I go back to Canada, to my hometown in Ottawa, we just don't have.
At least where I live.
Even if you go downtown in Ottawa, it's not even close.
So yeah, there's nice peace and quiet in Canada, but there's an awesome energy in Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh City.
So now I'm going to talk about the countryside.
I've never lived in the countryside, but I've been out there a few times. So I'll just talk about what I've noticed.
In the countryside, of course, there's a lot more peace and quiet.
Going to these places is a good way to get away from the hustle and bustle of a big city.
The people can be very friendly, very welcoming, and they seem very happy.
That's what I've noticed whenever I'm in the countryside.
Many people have their own small businesses where they live.
Maybe they're farmers, maybe they repair bikes, or maybe they sell food.
Many of them just seem genuinely happy.
Another thing is that if you live in the countryside, you probably don't need an alarm clock.
There are roosters and other farm animals—we can call them livestock—that will probably wake you up at five or six in the morning.
That's one thing...
When I stay in the countryside or at a homestay, it's actually kind of nice.
I don't like waking up early, but when I wake up naturally with the sounds of nature, I think, "Okay, it's not so bad."
Everyone is waking up.
The whole area, the whole community, is waking up together.
People are going to the market to sell things, and they're just getting their day started.
They're simply getting back to their daily lives.
I'm trying to think of anything else related to the countryside.
One thing is that, of course, the infrastructure isn't as developed.
I've noticed that people often light fires to burn dead vegetation or sometimes even garbage.
That's unfortunate because it does pollute the air.
But people do what they have to do.
If there's no other way to deal with it, then that's just how it is.
Hopefully, in the future, that kind of thing will be improved.
The countryside can be described in many ways.
We could say it's very peaceful, tranquil, and relaxing.
It's a place where you can get away from the chaos of the city.
It's also a place where you can unwind.
If your hometown is in the countryside but you now live in a big city, you can always go back there for the weekend.
You can unwind, play with your dog or your cat, spend time with your parents, and enjoy some home-cooked food.
So yeah...
I'm actually going to have a sip of my coffee.
So good.
I forgot my coffee was right there.
So yeah, guys, I hope this episode was useful for you.
I hope there were a lot of different words that you can use when describing your hometown or any other city.
I'm going to continue with this format.
Well, let me know if you guys like this format.
Leave a comment below.
To be honest, it took me so long to release a new podcast because I actually recorded two episodes, but I wasn't really happy with them.
I felt like they were about nothing.
I wanted this podcast to have a bit more structure.
I don't want to spend every week wondering, "What am I going to talk about? Am I just going to blab on?"
I think it would be much more useful if I focused on specific topics.
That way, we'll have more variety.
And if you want to learn something specific, you can simply watch the podcast about that topic.
So guys, I hope you're having a great day—or I hope you had a great day.
I wish you all the best with your English studies.
If you want to keep learning conversational English, then watch this video where I interview people on the street and ask them some fun English questions.
I'll see you there.
Goodbye.