[041] Rubbish/ Garbage

1. Do you think it's important to keep the city clean?
Very! Our future generation relies on what we do to take care of our planet in the present. Furthermore, I believe we all have a social responsibility to do what we can to keep it as clean as possible. It is negative to our health, as well as how it looks aesthetically (appealing to beauty) to have a dirty city.

2. Do you recycle things like paper and plastic?
Always. First, I separate the garbage in my house into paper, plastic, glass, etc then take it to the recycling bin which is available in my condominium complex. Along with this, I reuse plastic as often as possible.

3. What do you do when you see rubbish on the street?
Pick it up. If I can find a garbage can or recycling bin, I'll take it there. If I can't, I'll carry it with me until I can dispose of it at my house. I know it's yucky (disgusting) to carry it around, but it's worth it.

4. Can you suggest why some people throw their litter on the ground?
I think it could be because of lack of concern, ignorance, or perhaps lack of education. I think this education all starts at home and school, so they just simply may not know if they never learned. Furthermore, I think some people simply don't care because they don't think their one small act with have a negative effect on the planet.

5. Would you like to help other people to keep your town or city tidy?
Absolutely! I love to take part in city clean-up activities. It would be my dream to start my own NGO, so I'm even thinking about creating one with an environmental cause. Apart from this, I'm a teacher, so I always integrate environmental topics into my classes.

6. Do you think plastic bags are a serious environmental problem?
Very! They aren't the only subject to focus on, but there is concrete evidence of the negative effects that plastic has on our entire planet and ecosystems, as it cannot decompose. I feel very upset when I see videos of animals dying from ingesting plastic, etc.

7. Do you think it's important to protect the environment?
Very! It isn't something that only affects us, but also our future generations. If we destroy the planet now, there won't be a healthy one for our children, grandchildren, and so on. Furthermore, along with humans, we also have to think about the state of our ecosystems in order to create a sustainable future.

8. Do you think schools should educate children to protect the environment?
Of course! Education is a very powerful tool to change the world. We have to educate them on even the simple steps they can take to create a more sustainable future, as well as let them know the risks we face. Moreover, we have to show them the significance of it all.

[042] Tea or coffee

1. What do you prefer, tea or coffee?
I'm definitely more of a tea person. However, I need a cup or two of coffee to shift myself into gear (to get started) in the morning. After this, I always stick with (choose) tea. Coffee tends to make me feel a bit anxious, whereas tea gives me a natural, energized feeling. Moreover, tea has more health benefits for me, especially since I'm prone to (easily get) colds and coughs.

2. What do you usually prepare for your guests, tea or coffee?
Definitely tea. As I don't have a coffee-maker or French press, I wouldn't want to serve instant coffee, so I always heat up water in my kettle and serve some tea, either in bags or fresh. Since I have quite a collection of different teas, I feel prouder to share this with my guests.

3. When was the last time you drank coffee or tea?
Just before this exam actually! I drank 2 cups of green tea this morning with my breakfast. As I was a tad nervous, I decided not to drink coffee this morning, as it sometimes causes me to feel jittery (nervous and shaking).

[043] Forest

1.When was the last time you went to a forest?
Hmm, let me think, it's been a while. Well, a couple years ago, my boyfriend and I went on a hike through a forest on the border of Germany and Belgium. It was really beautiful! The pine trees and thick greenery were really impressive.

2. Do you like to go to a forest if you are free?
I like it, but it wouldn't be my first place. Instead of a forest, I would rather go to the beach or the mountains. There's something I find a little eerie (creepy) about being in a forest. I always fear the critters (animals), or even worse the people who could be lurking around (hanging out) in the forest.

[044] Social Network

1. Are you a social person?
Very much so! I feel that I thrive on (survive) social interactions. I like a small amount of time to myself each day, but I feel most charged when I spend time with others. I prefer to spend my free time with friends or family rather than being in my room reading a book, for instance.

2. What kind of social networking websites do you like to use?
Just the usual ones, like Facebook and Instagram. I used to be into (interested) posting positivity on Facebook, but now I prefer to post just photography on Instagram instead. As I'm an avid (experienced) traveler, I like to showcase my photography as a way to share my stories with others.

3. What kind of people do you like to be friends with on those websites?
All kinds! I am friends with a wide range of people from my school years, family members, and friends I've recently met. Actually, I'm even friends with people who I've never even met before.

4. Is it easy to find a real friend on a social networking website?
It depends. The thing is, I think people are superficial on social media sites, and that some people lie about their identities. However, I think one can still meet a genuine friend online, but they must practice more caution.

5. What kinds of chatting apps do people in your country like to use?
I would say the most common are Facebook messenger, Imessage, Instagram Direct Message, and Whatsapp. Nowadays, as most people have Iphones, I think Imessage is the most prominent, followed by Instagram.

[045] Visiting Relatives

1. Do you often visit your relatives? (Why?)
Yes, I do! When I was younger, I used to find it boring, but now that I'm older, I cherish (enjoy/value) the time I have with my relatives. I plan to see different relatives every Sunday.

2. What do you do when you visit them?
We usually keep it pretty simple. We tend to have a meal at one of our houses or just sit in the living room and talk. From time to time, we decide to go out to eat or to do something else, like maybe the cinema or the park.

3. When was the last time you visited them? what did you do?
Just this morning actually! I went over to bring my grandparents lunch, since they aren't very mobile anymore. We ate chicken salad then I helped them pay their bills online and chatted.

4. Do you prefer visiting your relatives, or your friends?
I like both for different reasons. I would say I probably enjoy seeing my friends more because it's a time to de-stress and have fun, whereas seeing family involves more stress and judgment. However, I think family is more important.

5. Do you take anything when you visit your relatives?
Of course! I always try to bring some flowers or some sort of contribution to the meal, as I'm not one who likes to show up empty-handed (with nothing). I especially like to bring something to my relatives after a vacation, like a souvenir- such a keychain, magnet, or T-shirt.

[046] Amusement Park

1. Do you like amusement parks?
I love them! I think they are something that all ages can enjoy. I still feel just as excited about them now as I did when I was a child. There's nothing like the feeling of your stomach dropping on a rollercoaster.

2. How often do you go to amusement parks?
Not very often anymore, maybe once every few years. However, in the past, we used to go every year. Nowadays, we go every few years. We're planning on going to Six Flags this October for Halloween, actually. They always have a special event there with haunted houses and costumes!

3. What do you usually do at amusement parks?
Rides, eat at concession stands, go swimming, and wait in line for a long time! My favorite rides are roller coasters and water rides, especially on hot days. For example, I love the log flume ride where you get a huge splash at the end. Moreover, I love the wave pools (a pool with generated waves) and lazy rivers (rivers where you relax and float).

[047] Tiredness

1. What kinds of things make you tired?
I'm generally a lethargic (tired; low energy) person, so I tend to get tired easily. I usually start to feel sleepy when I sit in a boring lecture and work in an office. Moreover, I tend to feel tired when I eat too much or drink alcohol.

2. What do you do when you feel tired?
Sometimes I decide to fight it with a cup of coffee or another form of caffeine, or I simply surrender (give up) and take a nap. However, when I take a nap, I tend to sleep for too long and feel even more tired afterwards, so it's better to fight through my fatigue (tired).

3. Who do you usually talk to when you feel mentally tired?
Just my closest friends or family. When I feel that way, I don't like to be in social situations in which I have to meet new people because I feel that I can't give my best self to them. I would rather retire to my room to listen to some music and fall asleep.

4. Do you like to talk to strangers when you feel mentally tired?
Not at all. I like to have full energy when I meet new people. When I meet new people when I'm exhausted, I feel dull (boring) and unable to engage in meaningful conversation. 

[048] Work/Study

1. What is your job?
I'm the founder and project manager for a volunteer organization called Corazon de Apus. We find local children living in poverty or with difficult family situations and bring them to a safe place after school where they can learn English with the volunteers from Western countries, get homework help, and simply play and escape their problems. We also pitch in (everyone gives some money) to provide them with school supplies, dental care, and uniforms.

2. How long have you been doing your job?
This is my 4th year on the job. Actually, at university I studied Finance, but I realized a 9- 5 isn't for me. I knew I needed to do a job that helps those in need. However, my finance skills do come in handy (are useful) in this job!

3. How was your first day at work?
I felt a little overwhelmed with all the volunteers coming to me asking all the ins and outs (all the details), but very excited at the same time. All of the stress was worth it when I saw the smiles of the children. Actually, they tackled me (to jump on and push to the ground) to ground with hugs!

4. Do you prefer part time or full time job? Why?
Well, of course I would rather have a part-time job! If I had a part-time job, I would invest the rest of my time to do the things that truly interest me, such as yoga, meditation, see family and friends, etc. I'm sure we would all feel happier if we were able to do this. Unfortunately, the problem is the money though!

5. Which job did you want to do when you were a child?
I used to dream of being a zookeeper. I have no clue why I thought it would be enjoyable to clean up after large, exotic animals! I guess I always loved animals. Anyway, this dream has passed!

6. Which job do you prefer in the future?
I would like to continue in the volunteer field, but keep expanding the projects. For example, I have dreamt of going to remote villages in the mountains and educating the people about public health, as it is a big problem in Peru. I hope to aid in (to help) reducing preventable disease.

7.Describe your education
I'm on a 5 year study plan, so I'll finish in 2 years. Next year, I'll begin my internship at a clinic for substance addicts. I really look forward to that hands on experience. After my Bachelor's, I plan to go onto my Master's, perhaps even my PhD.

8.What is your area of specialization?
I'm a Psychology major with a minor in Spanish language. Why did you choose to study that major? As I've always been fascinated by how the mind works, I felt that Psychology was the ideal field of study for me. Furthermore, I believe I have wonderful interpersonal skills and can easily connect and empathize with others, making me the perfect fit.

9.What was your favourite subject as a child?
I've always loved Art because it helps me relax and well, I'm quite good at it. After all the strenuous hours of book work in the other classes, it was always a relief for me to come to my canvas. I feel that Art is an incredible outlet (a way to express feelings) for me.

10. Do you think your country has an effective education system?
To an extent yes, but I also think it can be too theoretical at times. I think they need to teach us how to use the information we learn more rather than just have us memorize for the exam. All in all, I cannot complain too much though.

11. Are you looking forward to working?
Absolutely! I cannot wait to put into effect what I've been learning for years now. I'm eager to help people with the psychological struggles that they face. I believe I can make a difference in the world.

[049] Travel & Festival

1. Do you like traveling?
Not really actually! I'm more of a creature of habit (someone who doesn't like changes to routine), so I'm usually not keen to change my daily routine. When I change it up, I often feel anxious and disoriented (not a clear mind). Furthermore, I have a fear or airplanes and get carsick, so traveling just isn't for me.
Or
I adore it! I definitely caught the travel bug (became addicted to) after my first trip abroad in 2011 to Australia. Since I first discovered the thrill of being lost in a new place, I have become an avid traveler.

2. Do you often travel by air?
Not at all! I try to avoid it at all costs (very seriously). If I must travel, I will take some motion sickness (getting sick from any kind of transportation) medicine and go by car or train. I was once on an airplane on my honeymoon that came very near to crashing, so my phobia (strong fear) stems from (comes from. Stem is the part where the flower grows) this.

3. How long was the longest trip you took?
I once had to go on business to the Philippines. It was a 24 hour flight! It was a nightmare (we saw this when something is very terrible). On top of this, I was seated next to a child who was relentlessly (not stopping) crying during the entire journey.

4. Which country would you like to travel to in the future?
I'm dying to (I really want to) go to Egypt. I've always dreamt of going there since I was a child, actually. I'm really fascinated by their ancient culture. I would be in awe of (amazed by) the Grand Pyramids I'm sure. Unfortunately, since I despise (hate) flying, I dont think I'll ever get there.

5. Would you like to travel to space?
Perhaps! I'm not sure how it feels to be in a rocket. I think it would be incredible to see a completely foreign galaxy (another world). I'm curious if other life forms (aliens) exist, so I would definitely go along on this journey to find out for myself. I also wonder if the moon is made out of cheese!

6. What is your favorite festival?
Hmm, that's a tough question because I'm definitely a holiday person (a person who likes holidays), but I would have to say New Years Eve. I'm always keen (want) for change and new beginnings, so I love setting new goals at the start of each new year, not to mention I really enjoy the parties. Second to this would be Valentine's Day, since I'm a hopeless romantic (a very romantic person).

7. How do you celebrate the festival?
In my culture, it's more very family-oriented holiday. We usually have a special family dinner at home followed by the countdown to midnight. However, in my culture we add something special to it. At the clock ticks down to midnight, we eat 12 grapes which signify a different wish for each month. After this, we go out to the city or town streets to drink with our friends and wish them a happy new year.

8. What is the most popular festival in your country?
Definitely Christmas, since I'm from a Catholic country. Nearly every town and city goes out of the way to deck (decorate) the streets out with Christmas lights and decorations. However, unlike other countries, we celebrate the epiphany, or day of the three wise men, on January 6 just as much at the 25th. This is the day in which we exchange gifts and watch parades.

9. Do you like western festivals?
Of course! They are part of my culture. I especially love Christmas, Easter, and New Years since they have always been part of my upbringing (childhood). However, I also find eastern festivals interesting. I lived in Vietnam for 2 years, and I was in awe (amazed) of the Lunar New Year and Mid-Autumn festival.

10. Where do people usually go during festivals?
Between homes and the streets. We hold meals in our homes for the holidays, as we value home-cooked meals. However, we are people who enjoy going out, so we often go out to celebrate at bars or even in the streets. For example, the Christmas Eve celebration entails going to a bar with friends until the wee hours (early hours) of the morning, followed by a family lunch the next day.

11. Do you like travelling long distance?
Yes, I do! I don't mind the long flights or jet lag whatsoever. I am thrilled by discovering other cultures and customs completely opposite from my homeland. Actually, I never fear what's foreign to me.

12. Do you often travel by plane?
Several times a year, sometimes even once a month. I'm a travel addict, so I always have my next plane ticket booked to keep me going. Although I don't have a high salary, I always find a way to fly via discount airlines and saving year-round.

13. Would you say your country is a good place for tourists to visit?
For sure! We have a wide range of ecosystems- from the Amazon Rainforest, The Iguazu Waterfalls, to the pristine coastlines. Brazil has so much rich culture and festivals to offer to tourists, not to mention the warm, fun-loving people.

14. In which season do you prefer to travel?
As I have 4 weeks of vacation in the winter, I prefer to travel during this time. I usually spend Christmas with my family in Brazil, then travel around to my neighboring countries. Actually, last year I traveled to Canada and now this year I will go to Vietnam Cambodia, and Thailand.

15. What was your first travel in your life?
Fortunately, the first trip I ever took abroad was to Australia. My parents sent me to stay with a host family in Australia to learn English while I traveled. Along with Australia, I visited New Zealand the the island of Fiji.

16. Where do you plan to travel next?
This coming year, I have a trip planned to Southeast Asia- to Vietnam, Cambodia, and Thailand with my husband. We will begin in Bangkok and discover the islands and elephant sanctuaries of Thailand, then move onto Hanoi, Vietnam and ride motorbikes to the south, then enter Cambodia to visit Angor Wat and Phnom Pen. I can't wait to discover this part of the world!

[050] Street Markets

1. Do you like going to street markets?
I love it! I love the whole experience of seeing people selling their products, as well as I believe that the freshest produce comes from there. I would much rather go to a street market than a large name brand supermarket, where the produce is treated with pesticides and other chemicals to keep it from perishing.

2. Are there many street markets in your country?
Not really. There a few farmer's market, but they aren't very common. People usually do their grocery shopping at large supermarkets.

3. What do people usually buy at street markets?
I'd say the most common items are fresh fruits and vegetables, maybe even meats or fish as well. However, the farmer's markets in my town tend to only sell fruits, vegetables, and local products such as honey from their bee farming.

4. What is the difference between street markets and supermarkets?
Street markets have fresher products and usually involve local people or farmers coming to sell their products, whereas supermarkets sell more commercialized products. Although street market food may be tasty and fresh, supermarket food can be safer since they have tighter restrictions from the FDA (Food and Drug Administration).
