1. MEDIA...........................6
2. LOVE, DATING & MARRIAGE................. 12
3. ADVERTISING...... 24
4. FAMOUS PEOPLE / CELEBRITIES...................... 29
5. ANIMALS & PETS....39
6. LAW....................... 47
7. CELLPHONES..... 51
8. CITY & COUNTRYSIDE................ 55
9. TECHNOLOGY.... 65
10. MUSIC................. 71
11. EMOTION............76
13. WORK/JOB........ 87
14. PUBLIC SPEAKING........................ 95
15. SHOPPING....... 102
16. FASHION.......... 117
17. TOYS................................ 123
18. POLITENESS...............................126
19. BOOK & READING.....................134
20. CULTURE..................................... 137
21. FAMILY......................................... 141
22. EDUCATION................................ 146
23. FOOD & EATING........................ 152
24. FREE TIME & HOBBIES............157
25. FRIENDS.........163
26. PLAN...................... 169
27. HISTORY............... 174
28. HEALTH................. 180
29. INTERNET............. 189
30. SPORTS - COMPETITION.............. 193
31. LANGUAGE.......... 200
32. MONEY...................209
33. SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY................ 220
34. SOCIAL NETWORK.............................. 226
35. TEENAGERS........ 231
36. TRANSPORTATION..............................235
37. INVENTION........... 241
40. NEWS / MAGAZINES............................. 255
41. ENVIRONMENT & POLLUTION......... 259
42. FASHION & CLOTHES......................... 265
43. GENERATION GAP......................... 271
44. TELEVISION......... 274
45. PHOTOGRAPHY..278
46. FILMS / MOVIE..... 282
47. HISTORY............... 291
48. LEADERSHIP....... 296
49. LIFE EXPERIENCE................................302
50. INVENTOR & CREATIVITY..................308
51. SCHOOL SUBJECTS............................312
52. DECISIONS........... 316
53. ENTERTAINMENT................................. 320
54. HANDWRITING.... 325
55. NATURE............... 328
56. HOLIDAY............... 334
57. FOOD......................337
58. ACCOMMODATION.............................. 342
59. PERSONALITY.....346
60. BUSINESS.......... 350

1. MEDIA

Topic: ad

Part 1: Do you like watching ads on TV?

I have to say that I have been interested in watching ads since I was a little child. I see them as a kind of entertainment with beautiful visuals. They are extremely relaxing, brief and eye-catching.

Part 2: Describe an ad that you like to watch.

Among the ads I’ve seen on TV and social media recently, I really like one from Shopee Vietnam, which is a well-known e-commerce company.

Well, I like it for a couple of reasons. First, it features the talented goalkeeper Bui Tien Dung and the famous singer Bao Anh. Both of them have achieved a lot in their careers and have become very popular. In the ad, they wear matching outfits and look great together, so it’s easy to see why the commercial has received so many views on social media platforms like Facebook and YouTube.

Second, it has some really catchy and funny music. The theme song is a remixed version of the original “Baby Shark” song for kids. It’s really catchy and makes me want to dance and sing along every time I hear it. Although some people may not like it because the song has been played so many times, a lot of people seem to be obsessed with it, and I still really enjoy it.

I also think it’s an effective and creative way to advertise because it helps make the Shopee brand more memorable to people.

Part 3: Do you think that ads on TV nowadays cause inconvenience for people?

Actually, commercials can take up roughly a third of a TV program, which can be really annoying. Even though I’m interested in watching ads, I personally feel that they can be quite disruptive when I’m watching a good TV series or show. Regular ads are usually fine, but ads with inappropriate content, such as violence or adult themes, can make people feel uncomfortable or even angry.

Social network

Part 1

Are you interested in using social networking sites?

Yes, I certainly am. I use Facebook quite a lot because I spend a lot of time scrolling through my news feed to keep up with friends and family.

Part 2

Describe a social networking site you like to use.

Wow, when it comes to social media, many people might think of Facebook as their first choice, but today I’d like to talk about my favorite platform, Instagram.

As you know, Instagram has more than one billion users, which is an impressive number. It has some features similar to Facebook, such as allowing users to chat and comment on other people’s posts.

First, it has a wide range of filters that allow users to edit their pictures in different ways. As a result, their photos can look more stylish and up-to-date than photos on some other social media platforms.

Second, we can keep up with not only our friends but also other users, including celebrities and influencers from different parts of the world. We can easily discover their posts and updates whenever we open Instagram.

As social media has become more popular, people want more than just a way to communicate with others, especially young people. They want something more interesting, different, and trendy, and I think Instagram has really met that need. Many trends have also started on the platform, and young people are probably the biggest beneficiaries.

In short, Instagram is a user-friendly platform and a great place for young people who want to stay connected, discover new trends, and keep up with what’s happening around the world.

Part 3

Why has the use of social media increased in the past few years?

Well, it’s obvious that social media has grown incredibly quickly over the past few years. I think there are a couple of reasons for this. First, social media platforms are convenient and multifunctional, allowing people to do a wide range of things. For example, they can make video calls, keep in touch with their friends, and see their friends’ daily photos and updates.

Another reason is the rise of smartphones, which has made it much easier for people to access social media apps and use them more frequently. Since most people carry their smartphones with them wherever they go, they can easily check social media whenever they have some free time.

2. LOVE, DATING & MARRIAGE

SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER

PART 2

Describe a couple you know who have a happy marriage.

If someone asked me what I treasure most in my life, the answer would have to be my family. They’re not only the people I can always rely on, but they’re also a huge source of inspiration for me in many ways. I wouldn’t be the person I am today without my parents’ guidance and their love for me, and, of course, their love for each other.

I never get tired of hearing my friends tell me how amazing and adorable my parents are, even though they’re both almost 60. According to my friends, my parents are basically relationship goals in real life. My dad is an intelligent, thoughtful, strong, and honorable man through and through. He started his own business 20 years ago and has worked hard to build the life he wants. He’s married to a beautiful, loving, and strong-willed woman who isn’t afraid to speak her mind.

My parents have known each other for almost five decades and have been in love for most of that time. They often tell us stories about when they were high school sweethearts and how they eventually got married. Some of the stories probably get a little exaggerated, but none of my siblings have ever complained.

Even though my parents work in different fields, they often ask each other for advice and opinions about all kinds of things. My dad always says that my mom is his biggest cheerleader in everything he does, while she tells us that he’s her rock.

One thing I’ve really noticed about my parents is how honest and open they are with each other. Like any other couple, they’ve been through their share of difficulties, but the way they deal with those problems is what has made their relationship even stronger.

I’m so grateful to have been born and raised in such a loving family, where I can feel that love every time I come home. It’s hard to put into words how much my parents have inspired me. They’ve shaped me into the person I am today and the person I hope to become in the future.

PART 3

1. If you are 35 years old without marriage, do you still waiting for your true love? Why?

I think that might be the case because I'd prefer to stay single rather than end up with the wrong person. It is not a surprise, I believe, because there are plenty of people who still enjoy their every moment without a life partner. On the one hand, the number of divorces and unhappy marriages has been increasing dramatically over the years, and the consequences are alarming — such as broken families, domestic violence, child neglect, and the list goes on. On the other hand, people can find happiness in different places and activities without committing to one particular person, especially those who aren't worth it. So I wouldn't settle for a relationship that isn't right for me.

2. Who will pay for the wedding cost? Man or woman or both? Why?

Planning a wedding budget can be a huge headache, and figuring out who pays for what might not be easy since there are so many expenses — like the rings, flower arrangements, the honeymoon, and so on. So, I believe depending on each couple's financial status, they should talk it through and decide how to split the costs in a way that works for them. For example, if both are doing well financially, they can share the cost equally. If not, the one who is better off can cover a larger portion of the expenses.

3. What do you think is the best age to marry?

I don't believe that there is a right time for anything, marriage included. It's more about the maturity of the two people than the age itself, I think. People mature at different rates, physically and emotionally, and they are not ready to settle down and find happiness in their married life until they can fully acknowledge their life issues and handle them carefully and realistically. Besides, financial situation also plays a significant part in a huge decision. Many divorces have been caused by the lack of money or financial problems. So, people should only consider starting a family when they can fully support themselves.

4. Do you think weddings in your countries waste lots of money?

Absolutely. Maybe I'm a minimalist, so, I consider weddings one of those occasions when people are willing to spend a lot of money unnecessarily with extremely expensive and unnecessary items and ceremonies. For example, in XYZ, where I come from, couples tend to have a huge reception with hundreds of guests. Personally, though, I think it should be a smaller celebration, where people can celebrate with close family and friends. On top of that, other wedding expenses — like flower arrangements, invitations, photography, and costumes — cost people way more than they should, because I believe they're more about appearances than anything else.

5. Why use lots of money for weddings?

I honestly don't really understand why couples spend such a huge amount of money on their weddings, but I may have some thoughts. First, it's a once-in-a-lifetime event, at least for most people, so they want to have a big celebration that everyone will remember. Whether it's a wedding invitation or wedding venue, everything has to be top quality. Second, big weddings might be a tradition in some countries. It's customary in many cultures to have several ceremonies and celebrations in order to have a happy married life. Finally, they can afford it. Some well-off couples love to show off their wealth and wedding is an ideal occasion.

6. In a traditional family in your country, what do men do in the family? And what about women? Why?

It's not surprising that women are still responsible for most of the housework in a family, traditional or not. Even though gender equality is actively promoted in modern society, there is still an imbalance in splitting housework. Housewives take care of almost everything — from cooking and doing the laundry to washing the dishes and cleaning the house — while their husbands only deal with the occasional hard task, like fixing pipes or gardening.

7. Do you think men should take care of baby? Why?

I believe both mother and father have fundamental roles in a child's development, from birth through adulthood. So, men should be more active in raising kids since they can help their children develop intellectually and socially. Research has shown that children who have a close father-child relationship are likely to have better social skills and fewer behavioral problems since they are more emotionally secure. Meanwhile, a distant or non-existent father-child bond could really hurt a kid's confidence. So, if you want to raise a well-rounded kids, pay attention to them.

8. Do you think men should do housework? Why?

Housework is definitely not women's sole responsibility, and men should share domestic chores with the female members of the family — for their own good as well as everyone else's. Becoming more disciplined and independent is the very first benefit when men take care of their own housework. Most men, especially wealthy ones, prefer to have their housemaid do all the work from cleaning the house to cooking. However, what if she gets sick or has emergency issues, are they willing to go out with dirty socks? So, no one can look after you better than yourself. Also, they are likely to become more understanding and thoughtful husbands. Men who are not afraid of household chores will be better prepared for married life, since they don't mind rolling up their sleeves and helping out at home.

9. What kind of traditional wedding in your country?

In XYZ, we celebrate weddings like most parts of the world, except with some extra special features in our ceremonies and costumes. Normally, a bride usually wears in a white gown with an elegant bridal veil to complete her stunning look. She will be accompanied by several bridesmaids, who are usually her close friends or relatives. Meanwhile, the groom typically wears a tuxedo or a suit for this special occasion, and his best man carries the wedding rings. Also, we have traditional wedding costumes that are more complicated and less comfortable to wear, but some couples still prefer them for other minor ceremonies besides the main one at the church.

3. ADVERTISING

QUESTION AND SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER Part 2

Describe an unforgettable ad that you saw or heard.

While waiting for my boyfriend to pick me up from work, I was watching ads on the TV in the lobby. That night I saw an ad that has stuck in my mind ever since.

It was a commercial for Nike shoes with Michael Jordan. In it he said, "I've missed more than nine thousand shots in my career. I've lost almost three hundred games. Twenty-six times I've been trusted to take the game winning shot but missed. I've failed over and over and over again in my life, and that is why I succeed." I couldn't get that commercial out of my mind, not because I thought wearing Nike shoes would make me as successful as Michael Jordan, but because of his determination and never-give-up attitude.

Life is full of challenges and difficulties that test our level of commitment. I believe having determination divides the winners from the losers. Successful people are not ones who have never failed, but those who kept trying. It may sound simple, but that's one thing that separates successful people from those who give up. The one skill that winners acquire is an understanding that growth is only possible if you have the courage to change what you have been doing, if it is not achieving the result you desire. Sometimes success is learning how to fall and recognizing that you can learn and grow from that experience. And growth is what a fulfilling life is all about.

QUESTION AND SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER Part 3

1. How do ads attract attention?

It all depends on what group of people the ad is aimed for. Young people look if it's cool, hip, or fashionable; whereas older people tend to be more practical-minded, so those in charge of advertising need to have a clear idea of who they will be targeting with their ad, and plan accordingly. If the ad is geared toward the younger generation, then showing how the product can help kids become more attractive, confident, or successful is a good approach. Catchy music also helps attract attention and helps listeners remember it. If you're trying to reach the older generation with your ad, explaining how the product will give them better health, or help them relax, or be happier may appeal to them.

2. Do young and old people have the same attitudes towards ads?

Definitely not. Every individual has his own unique attitude toward ads and the pros and cons of advertising. People of all ages tend to think that ads can be misleading, dishonest, phony, shallow, and sometimes annoying, especially when they're poorly made or just plain silly. On the other hand, if they're done well, they can be very creative, funny, artistic, and enjoyable to watch. Those, however, are the exception rather than the norm.

3. Do you think ads are a good or bad influence on children?

Looking at kids today, I'd have to say that ads have mostly had a negative influence on their lives and the way they see themselves. They make kids feel dissatisfied with what they have and make them want more and want to be like everyone else. Ads also tend to be unrealistic and give kids a false idea of what they should be like or what will happen when they buy a product.

4. Do you think ads actually influence people to buy things? And How?

When people see ads over and over again, the products become more familiar and stick in their minds. So when they want to buy something, they're more likely to choose a brand they recognize. In our country, people often want to be like people in the West, so they buy things they see Westerners using on TV. They think that if they have the same products, they'll be as cool as the people in the ads, which I find pretty bizarre.

Government control

5. Does the government control ads in any way?

Of course. TV and other media are controlled by the government to some extent, so advertising is too. The government prevents ads from containing inappropriate content or anything that goes against government policies. That's pretty common in every country. I'm sure that as long as an ad stays within reasonable limits, the government wouldn't have much to say about it.

6. Do you think there should be controls on advertising?

Yes, I do. Some things shouldn't be advertised, such as cigarettes, because they're harmful to people's health. Most people already know they exist, so they don't need to be promoted any further. Children especially shouldn't be exposed to ads that make harmful things look cool or interesting. Ads with age-inappropriate content should also be banned.

7. Do you think that ads for products that harm the health, such as cigarettes, should be allowed?

Now you're getting into the issue of freedom of choice and whether it would be better to simply ban advertising for these products to get people to stop using them. But unfortunately, that doesn't really work, as the experience with Prohibition in the States showed. The best thing would be for these products not to be manufactured at all, but that wouldn't work either because they'd just be produced illegally, which could make them even more dangerous.

8. Can you think of any example of false advertising?

The biggest example that comes to mind is McDonald's ads. Every time I go to McDonald's, I see pictures of happy, thin people with big smiles and perfect teeth, holding hamburgers and cartons of French fries that are at least three times bigger than the real products. These ads clearly ignore three obvious facts. First, if you eat at McDonald's a lot, you're not going to look like the people in the ads. Second, the hamburgers and French fries are nowhere near as big as they look in the pictures. Third, if you stand there smiling while holding a burger, nobody is going to think you look cool.

9. What kinds of products are most often (most easily) promoted by false advertising?

Well, I think a lot of products are promoted through false advertising. I hate to sound so cynical, but I have a friend who works in advertising, and a lot of the so-called experts promoting these products actually know very little about them. This happens a lot with beauty and skincare products. Women who spend a lot of time at home watching TV can be especially influenced by this kind of advertising.

4. FAMOUS PEOPLE/ CELEBRITIES

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER 1

Part 1

- Do you like celebrities? Why/Why not?

Personally, I'm pretty interested in showbiz because I'm always curious about how celebrities attract people's attention on stage, as well as all the buzz surrounding their private lives.

- Do you want to be a celebrity?

Actually, I'm pretty good at singing, and I'm planning to audition for The Voice Vietnam. I love the feeling of standing on stage and getting a big round of applause after I finish performing.

Part 2

Describe a celebrity that you admire.

I'd like to talk about my favorite Vietnamese footballer, who is also someone I really admire because of his determination. His name is Le Cong Vinh, and he used to be a striker for the national football team.

He became well known not only for his talent as a footballer, but also for being a devoted husband and father. Although he has retired from professional football, he has continued to contribute to the development of football in Vietnam by working as a coach and building a football center to help discover young talent. When he was playing for the national team, he and his teammates won the AFF Suzuki Cup in 2008, which was a huge event in Vietnam and made headlines at the time.

Besides his football career, he is also admired for his marriage to his wife, Thuy Tien, who is a well-known singer. They are both known for doing a lot of charity work together, helping people in need across the country. He is also loved for living a simple and happy life. We often see posts about his family's everyday activities on Facebook. I hope he continues to be a role model for people in Vietnam, keeps doing what he does, and helps more people in the future.

Part 3

What do you think about the impact of celebrities' style on the youth nowadays?

Well, I think celebrities nowadays tend to dress very stylishly and often wear expensive clothes to show off their status. Their clothes come from both local and international brands, and some of them cost a lot of money. Also, many celebrities want to be trendsetters, so young people often look to them for fashion inspiration. Brands like Gucci, Off-White, and Balenciaga are popular among celebrities, and young people nowadays also buy items from these luxury brands to look like their idols, despite the high prices.

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER 2

Part 2

Describe a lesson you learn from a celebrity.

Well, the celebrity I admire the most is Ellen DeGeneres. To me, she's not just a comedian, but also an example of having the courage to be herself.

As you probably know, she's famous for publicly coming out as a lesbian despite the prejudice she faced at the time. She's also an active LGBT activist who has fought for LGBT rights and inspired people to be true to themselves without being afraid of what society thinks of them. She's very talented and has a great sense of humor, and she hosted one of the most-watched shows in the world, The Ellen DeGeneres Show, for over ten years.

Besides that, Ellen is a very kind and helpful person. She regularly raises money from sponsors to help audience members who are in need. Another interesting thing about her is that she's such an engaging host that I can't take my eyes off the screen when I watch her show. At the end of each episode, she always shares the message, "Be kind to one another," which encourages people to get along with those around them. In other words, she's a role model for me, and I hope I can see her in person someday.

Part 3

How can a celebrity negatively affect the brand image that they advertise for?

In fact, celebrities can have a negative effect on the brands they endorse if they get involved in a scandal. The public may start to see them as a poor representative of the brand. As a result, the brand could suffer significant losses and its sales could drop dramatically. However, the biggest problem is that the brand could lose popularity and damage its reputation.

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER 3

Part 2: Describe a popular comic actor /actress you know

Well, the popular comic actor I'd like to talk about today is Jim Parsons. He's a famous American actor, best known for playing Sheldon Cooper in the sitcom The Big Bang Theory. He has received several awards for his performance, including four Primetime Emmy Awards for Outstanding Lead Actor in a Comedy Series. Apart from The Big Bang Theory, Jim Parsons has also given great performances in other comedies, including Family Guy. Overall, he's a very popular comic actor around the world, and many people, especially young people, really enjoy his performances.

The reason he's so popular is that the character he plays is so funny that people can easily fall in love with him. I'd like to use his role in The Big Bang Theory as an example. In the show, Jim Parsons plays a genius with a high IQ but an extremely low EQ. As soon as I see his funny facial expressions and quirky behavior, I can't stop laughing. As for the audience, especially young university students, they enjoy watching the show in their free time because it helps them relieve everyday stress. So, that's why Jim Parsons is so popular.

IELTS Speaking Part 3

1) Should actors be paid more?

Well, I think actors should be paid more. The first thing I'd mention is that acting is hard work. In general, actors have to overcome many difficulties if they want to be successful. For example, some actors have to wear winter clothes in the summer because the director wants to shoot a scene that takes place in winter. Second, acting can also be dangerous. For example, in an action movie, actors often have to perform dangerous stunts, such as doing wire work and so on. Since acting can be both dangerous and hard work, I think actors should be paid more.

2) What influences do actors or actresses have on young people?

Well, there are many ways actors can influence young people. The first thing I'd mention is that actors can influence young people's behavior. Honestly, almost every young person has an idol, and when they do, they're usually eager to learn more about their idol's life and often try to learn from them.

Here, I'd like to take myself as an example. When I was young, my idol was Jay Chou. At that time, he often donated money to help people in need, so I looked up to him and wanted to follow his example. I also saved my pocket money and donated it to people in need.

Second, actors can also influence young people's outlook and values. Here, I'd like to take a favorite TV host of mine, Ou Di, as an example. He had gone through a lot of difficulties before becoming famous, so he often uses his own experiences to encourage young people to face challenges with determination.

So, I think actors can have a strong influence on young people's behavior and values.

3) Are there many people in your country who want to work as an actor?

Well, I don't think there are that many. The first thing I'd mention is that it's very difficult to become a famous actor. Honestly, thousands of young people graduate from film schools every year, but only a few of them become famous. So, becoming a successful actor is extremely difficult.

Second, actors don't have much privacy. Nowadays, many people are interested in the private lives of actors, and they're eager to dig into their personal lives. So, actors often have to live under the spotlight all year round. Because of this, I feel that many people don't want to work as actors.

4) Who are more popular, TV stars or movie stars?

Well, I think TV stars tend to be more popular. The first thing I'd mention is that TV stars appear on screen more often. In most cases, people like watching TV with their families in the evening. If they're following a certain TV series, they'll see the same TV star over and over again for a certain period of time, so they'll easily remember the star's face.

Second, I think TV stars are often chosen based on their appearance. For most TV series, directors tend to choose handsome actors and beautiful actresses to appear in the show because an actor's appearance can help attract viewers and boost ratings.

So, I think TV stars tend to be more popular.

5. ANIMALS & PETS

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER Part 2

Describe a pet that you own and has a special influence on you.

I'd like to tell you about my dog. His name is Husky, which comes from the German noun "der Husky," meaning "the dog" in English.

Husky was born and raised in Japan. When he was three years old, he moved to Frankfurt with his owner. I had the chance to take care of him two years ago, when my Japanese neighbor decided to move to Berlin after accepting a new job offer.

Husky is an extremely loyal and intelligent dog. He's a good swimmer and can even imitate a few simple human words, like "hello" and "goodbye." He also enjoys playing in my garden and watching TV with me in the evening.

Two years ago, Husky was upset because he had to leave his owner. But these days, we've become really close, and we often play together in my free time. Husky has had a special influence on my life because he was the first pet I've ever had.

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER Part 3

1. Do you think animals have feelings and rights?

I think animals can think and feel too. I'm sure you've heard of Hachiko, the dog that waited for his owner to come home every day for more than nine years after his owner died. That kind of remarkable loyalty made me realize that animals can have emotions too. I also believe animals should have basic legal protection, so there are clear limits on how people can treat them.

2. Some people breed animals such as dogs for money. How do you feel about that?

I'm fine with people breeding animals for money as long as they don't hurt the animals in the process. I know some people who breed dogs for a living, but they really love their dogs and take good care of them. They would never want to see their dogs in pain, so I don't think there's anything wrong with breeding animals for money as long as they're treated well.

3. Do you think there should be laws to protect the welfare of pets and farm animals? Why or why not?

Absolutely. If you think about it, animals are vulnerable, defenseless, and completely dependent on humans. Still, I strongly believe they deserve to live their lives free from unnecessary suffering and abuse. People who mistreat animals should be held accountable and face legal consequences for what they've done.

4. Are there any wild animals in your country that are not found in any other country?

I'm only aware of a few endangered species, such as the pheasant, the Tonkin snub-nosed monkey, the Crested Argus, and the Annam black muntjac.

5. Are there any animal reserves in your country where wild animals can live in protection?

As far as I know, there are several national parks and nature reserves across the country that help protect wild plants, animals, and their natural habitats.

6. How do people feel about the protection of wild animals?

For the most part, I think people are well aware of the importance of protecting wild animals and endangered species. In particular, many young people nowadays are actively doing their part to support wildlife conservation. For example, they may take part in animal conservation volunteer programs in remote areas or share information about illegal wildlife trade on social media in the hope of raising awareness about animal welfare.

7. What do you think are some of the benefits to humans from protecting wild animals?

I think there are two main reasons why we should protect wild animals. The first has to do with protecting our ecosystems. Everything in nature has evolved to work together and create an environment that can sustain life. However, it's hard to know exactly what might happen to an ecosystem when even a small part of it disappears. So, wild animals, as an important part of the world's ecosystems, need to be conserved and protected.

Another reason is that many medicines used to treat various health conditions, including heart disease and other illnesses, have been developed from chemicals produced by animals. If wild animals disappear, it could become impossible for humans to study them and learn from them.

SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER 2

1) Have you seen any TV programs about animals?

Well, I've watched a TV program called *The Animal World*. It's a popular program on CCTV. In each episode, the host introduces a particular kind of animal to the audience. For example, I watched an episode about lions last month. In that episode, the host not only talked about lions' habits and different species through videos, but also explained their evolutionary history in detail. So, I think I've learned a lot from the program, and it makes my free time more interesting.

2) What should we do to protect endangered animals?

Well, I think people in modern society should do more to protect the environment and provide a safe place for endangered animals to live. We can't deny that people cut down a lot of trees and release harmful gases into the air in order to develop the economy. All of this can have a negative impact on the habitats of endangered animals. So, I think the whole society needs to work together to improve the natural environment and create a safer home for these animals.

3) Do you support doing experiments on animals?

Well, personally, I don't support experiments on animals. The first thing I'd mention is that some of these experiments can be extremely cruel to animals. I remember when I was a university student, students at medical school often used small rats and rabbits in experiments to test the side effects of medicines. They injected chemicals into the animals, and some of them died from the pain. I think that kind of treatment is too cruel.

Another reason is that I think experimenting on animals shows a lack of respect for life. Even though animals can't communicate with us in human language, they can still feel pain, and I believe their lives should be treated with respect. So, for these reasons, I don't think we should conduct experiments on animals.

4) Why do some people refuse to eat animals?

Well, there are several reasons. The first thing I'd mention is that some people believe eating animal products isn't healthy. When people eat animals, they often consume not only meat but also internal organs. Some of these foods can contain a lot of oil and fat, which can be harmful to people's health. So, in order to stay healthy, some people choose not to eat animal products and prefer to eat more fruit and vegetables.

Another reason is that some people think it's too cruel to eat animals. They believe that killing animals for food is a cruel process because our food comes at the cost of animals' lives. So, I think those are the main reasons why some people choose not to eat animal products.

5) What would happen when some species disappear on earth?

Well, one of the main reasons some species disappear from the Earth is that people don't pay enough attention to environmental protection. For example, they cut down trees in forests and pollute the air in order to promote economic and industrial development. These activities can seriously damage animal habitats and eventually lead to the extinction of some species.

It's widely recognized that every species plays a role in the ecosystem. So, when some species disappear, it can upset the balance of the ecosystem and may also have a negative impact on human life in the long run.

6. LAW

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER Part 2

Describe a good law in your country.

I'm going to talk about Singapore's littering laws, which I firmly believe are a great idea. As you know, Singapore is one of the cleanest countries in the world, and I think that's something to be really proud of, especially considering that many other countries in Asia have serious pollution problems. Unfortunately, I think people need strict laws and proper enforcement to give them an incentive not to litter. Either way, I'm glad these laws help protect the environment and the people who live there.

In Singapore, a first-time offender who is caught littering can be fined up to $2,000. A second-time offender can be fined up to $4,000, and a third-time offender can face a fine of up to $10,000. However, this only applies if you're caught. I wonder how many people manage to get away with littering! That said, there is a strong police presence in Singapore, so I hope that doesn't happen very often.

I would say the whole country benefits from these laws. By having a cleaner environment, we can enjoy countless health benefits. For example, we can have healthier lungs and skin, while animals can have better habitats. We can also attract more tourists, as many people are drawn to clean and well-maintained places. That said, I know that some people can also benefit financially from having a cleaner environment.

Sadly, humans have a tendency to see only what they want to see. None of us really wants to think about how much we're harming the planet, especially when the effects aren't always directly visible. We tend to live for today and worry about the consequences later. That said, people often don't take the initiative to protect the environment unless there are laws in place. So, I think these laws are important because they give people a strong incentive not to litter.

Since the fines are extremely high, they can discourage people from littering and make them think twice before throwing their trash on the ground. Of course, strict laws need to go hand in hand with education, but I think it would be difficult to keep a country clean without proper laws and enforcement. I wish more countries had laws like these.

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER Part 3

1. Is there any situation where people disobey the law?

Honestly, I've never actually seen anyone litter. I'm sure it must still happen to some extent, but I genuinely think people are afraid to do it because of the heavy fines and the strong police presence. However, I know that no country is perfect and that there will always be people who disobey the law. On another note, I think people who come to Singapore may be more likely to throw their trash on the ground if littering isn't strictly enforced in their home country.

2. Do people like being police officers in your country?

I would say so. Actually, my father is a police officer, and he seems to enjoy his job quite a bit, although it's definitely a tough job. Since Singapore has a reputation for being one of the safest countries in the world, the police force works extremely hard to make sure that reputation is maintained. That said, some police officers probably feel quite a lot of pressure, which can make the job challenging but also rewarding.

3. What qualities should a police officer have?

First, I believe a police officer must have a strong sense of integrity. Since corruption is a problem in many countries and can hold a society back, it's important for police officers to be honest, know the difference between right and wrong, and genuinely care about making their country safer.

They also need to be hard-working and alert because there are always people trying to break the law without getting caught. All in all, I think a good police officer needs to be firm and disciplined in order to do their job effectively.

4. Why do some people want to become lawyers?

Honestly, I think some people choose this career because of the money, since being a lawyer is a well-paid profession in many countries. Second, some people are genuinely passionate about the law and want to dedicate their careers to it. Third, there are many different areas of law, such as international law, elder law, and criminal law, so there are plenty of different career opportunities within this field.

Like with any other career, I think people eventually figure out which path is right for them.

7. CELLPHONES

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER PART 2

Describe the time when you received your first cellphone

I got my first cellphone when I was in the third year of junior middle school. I was doing my homework with my biggest effort at that time when my mom put the new cellphone beside me and it was kind of my birthday gift as my birthday was approaching at that time. Another reason why I got the new cellphone was that my mom wanted to encourage me to work harder through providing a bonus for me. In terms of the appearance of the phone, it is a delicate and small cellphone and pink, which suits girls very much. Because it is not big, it is actually convenient for to carry. I felt ecstatic upon receiving such a surprise as I had never expected to have a cellphone of my own when I was still in the middle school. from then on, I could contact my friends and family whenever I wanted, which made my life much more convenient. Also, when I needed to put down some notes and there was no paper or pen around, I could just take out my phone and use the notes app. Looking back now, the first new cellphone really means a lot to me.

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER Part 3

1) For children, what age do you think is suitable to allow them to use cellphones?

I think the right time for them to use cellphones may be their middle school time because from then on, they may need to keep in touch with their friends. In middle school years, it is also the time when they begin to go out to play occasionally and they need the phones to let their family know where they are and that they're safe. If you ask the specific year when it is appropriate for students to use the phones, I would say maybe in the second year of junior middle school as that is also the time when I began to own my own cellphone. My mom gave it to me as a gift to help me keep in touch with my classmates for discussing homework after going back home.

2) Is it popular for children to use cellphones in your country?

I think it is quite common for children to use cellphones in my country. As far as I know, most junior middle school students have at least a cellphone of their own. One of the reasons why cellphones are so popular among children is that their parents are willing to give their kids money to buy the phones they want because parents think it is necessary. And there are many uses for children to use cellphones such as contacting their classmates and friends although some children buy the phones just because they want to play games on them.

3) What do teenagers in your country use cellphones for?

I think there are several common uses. First, for some teenagers, they use the phones to check the English words they don't know and listen to the music, so for them, cellphones can help them study and relax themselves. For another group of teenagers, they value the relationship between friends, so they will use the phones to keep in touch with their friends. They will use the phones to discuss homework together and chat with each other when they feel upset. The last group of teenagers uses use the phones to play games as we all know that there are more and more mobile games. Overall, teenagers use the phones for fun and convenience in life.

4) What are the advantages/disadvantages of using cellphones?

There are both quite a lot of advantages and disadvantages of using cellphones. For advantages, first, cellphones can bring much convenience in people's life such as using them to contact the classmates when they need to discuss the difficulties in homework. Also, they can use them to make the phone call when they need someone to talk with. Second, some apps in cellphones can help them study such as different digital English dictionaries and apps to supervise them to do English reading every day. There are also numerous disadvantages, for example, the phones can be a major distraction when students try to study. Also, it is easy for teenagers to be addicted to mobile games, which is becoming a growing concern in today's society.

5) Why are many people addicted to apps?

I think there are various reasons. First, we have to admit that the design of the apps nowadays really meets people's needs and is very attractive. For example, Amazon is the most popular app for shopping and there are so many kinds of products in this app, so people will spend a large amount of time to select the things they want and decide what to buy. Over time, they may become hooked on it. Another reason, I think is that modern people can more easily get addicted to digital products because the fast pace of modern life makes them feel empty or lonely so that they may spend a lot of time on those apps to deal with those feelings.

8. CITY & COUNTRYSIDE

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER IELTS Speaking Part 1

1. Do you often visit the countryside?

Yes, I usually take day trips to the countryside on the weekend to recharge my energy after a busy week.

2. If so, who do you visit in the countryside?

I like to visit my grandmother in the countryside. I usually get there on a train. Whenever I get the chance to see her and enjoy the fresh fruit, I feel relaxed and refreshed.

3. Do you have family or friends living in the countryside?

Yes, my grandmother still lives in the countryside. She is a farmer & she really enjoys the peace and quiet & the beauty of the countryside, so she decided to stay there for the rest of her life.

4. Would you like to live in the countryside in the future?

Absolutely! I really enjoy going to the forest. The environment there is just great. Every now and then I would visit a forest just because there isn't that much pollution so I could enjoy the fresh air. The animals there are quite cute – especially some colourful birds.

5. Have areas of countryside in your country changed since you were a child?

Do you think that visits to the countryside should be something that schools offer to their children?

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER IELTS Speaking Part 2

Describe an enjoyable/unforgettable experience you had in the countryside

It was two years ago when I had my very first motorbike trip with my friends to one of the oldest villages, which is located in the Southern [your country]. It was one of the most memorable trips I've ever taken.

Our group had 3 people, Jack, Jenny and me. We chose to visit that village because we wanted to get away from the hustle and bustle of the city and get away from the usual tourist spots. Also, because the village is also the birthplace of my grandparents, I felt really excited to visit the village and learn about the lifestyle of local people as well as my grandparent.

We set out for a day trip to experience some of our country's traditional culture really early. I'm always a night owl, not an early bird, so leaving the city at 5 a.m made me feel like I was really tired. However, I was really happy shortly after starting the trip to the village. This was because on the way to get there, we admired the beautiful scenery which is totally different from the city we are currently living in. After an hour's drive, we reached the village, and I was really excited. We rented some bikes to cycle around the village with a lot of small alleyways filled with green grass. After riding a bike to the paddy field to experience the atmosphere of the village, we visited some 400-year-old houses made of mud and laterite and had a look at communal houses where the local people gathered for festivals and public meetings. After that, we had lunch with a lot of delicious food made with locally grown ingredients. In the afternoon, we joined a cooking class with the villagers who were extremely friendly and good at making traditional cakes. The highlight of the trip to the village was going to the paddy fields to help the farmers harvest the crop. It was such a special experience which I really enjoyed.

That was our first motorbike trip to the outskirts of the city and first time we'd been to the countryside so we really enjoyed every single moment there. Jenny was like a dog with two tails while Jack and I were also really happy. We relished everything in the village from the fresh air and comfortable atmosphere to the beautiful scenery such as small houses or paddy fields. We very much hope that we can take a longer trip to the countryside in the future if we have more spare time.

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER 2

Describe a place in your city that you would like to visit

As a rule, I go to different places in my neighborhood, but if I have to describe one that grabs my attention, I'd like to visit a recently opened park that's just a short walk from my house, maybe a couple of days later when I get my work done. The reason for putting off this is that recently I've been so busy with work that I haven't had time to go there.

I hear that there are a bunch of things to see in the park, and it seems to be a hub of activity for local people. There are said to be people selling lottery tickets, street vendors selling things, or children playing about on the grass. I haven't gone there yet, but it seems that there can be more intriguing things.

The park interests me for a couple of reasons. First, the atmosphere is fresh, and there are many species of plants and flowers to look at. Second, I love kids and seeing them having fun just blows my mind. It reminds me of my sweet childhood when I spent most of my free time playing in the park.

My plan is to organize a small picnic with some of my buddies at university to have a getaway from the really hot weather this spring. Probably, we will simply have a good time together catching up in the shade of many trees there.

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER IELTS Speaking Part 3

1. What are the advantages of living in the countryside?

Living in the countryside can definitely benefit people in many kinds of ways. For one thing, living in the countryside is better for one's health thanks to significantly lower levels of air pollution. It is undeniable that air quality in big cities is so bad that long-term exposure to it may cause respiratory diseases and other health problems. Besides, the cost of living in rural areas is likely to be lower than that in cities. Although people in the city tend to make more money than people in the countryside do, they have to spend more on food, accommodation and transportation. So, one can actually save more money by living in the countryside without working as hard.

2. What are the disadvantages of living in the countryside?

Although living in the countryside can do wonders for your wellbeing, it is undeniable that there are still some drawbacks of living in the countryside. To be more specific, without having many public transport options on your doorstep, it will be much more inconvenient to travel to faraway places, which also means you will spend more time on commuting. Another disadvantage is that people living in the countryside also have fewer job opportunities compared to those in the cities, which can result in a lower standard of living.

3. What kinds of people live in the countryside?

As far as I know, many people decide to live in the countryside because they want to move to a less stressful lifestyle. Although people who live in the countryside can still lead hectic lives, the peace of their surroundings help to help them slow down and enjoy life.

4. What do people living in the countryside like to do?

I reckon that when living in the countryside, people can enjoy many activities that are harder to find in cities such as going out at night without fear of street criminals, doing exercise in the early morning to enjoy the fresh air.

5. How has life changed over time in the countryside?

The countryside has experienced certain changes for the last few decades. First, people, especially farmers, have applied modern technologies in their work. So, the productivity has significantly improved while people don't have to work as hard as they used to. Also, young people in the countryside tend to move to towns to seek job opportunities. As a result, the rural population is shrinking and aging.

6. Do you think it is better to live in the countryside or in the city?

As often as this question is raised, I believe it remains a tough decision to make when it comes to choosing between living in the countryside and living in the city. Many people have been attracted to live and work in big cities because of better employment opportunities and higher living standards. This large movement of people from rural areas to cities has, however, led to increase in environmental pollution, traffic and social issues in urban areas. It would be a better idea for people to live in the suburbs and travel into the city to work every day so that they can enjoy the advantages of both.

7. How is the countryside different from town?

There are many differences between the countryside and towns. Obviously, it is much less crowded in the country than in cities. Besides, the pace of life in the countryside is slow while people living in big cities always seem to be in a hurry. Also, it is much healthier to live outside big cities because the air in the country is fresher and there is not as much noise.

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER 2

1. Do you think that landmarks will make a city more famous, why?

Of course it is. Landmarks such as picturesque landscapes or historical places often draw huge numbers of tourists, making a city well-known to the rest of the world. For example, people often visit Canada for its beautiful views in rural areas or mountainous regions, as well as coastal cities that offer beautiful beaches. Without such attractions, it would be hard to convince foreigners to visit my country.

2. What interesting things can we do in big cities?

We can have a lot of fun in big cities. If you like shopping, you could go shopping for beautiful clothes and see the designs of famous brands. We have to admit that major museums are usually located in big cities. In these places, we can appreciate our culture and history. There're also some amusement parks and leisure centers for people both young and old.

3. What's the difference between living in the city and countryside?

I think that many differences could be counted. First, infrastructure in the city is significantly more modern, developed and convenient for traveling than in the countryside. Additionally, the lifestyle of people in rural areas is less competitive and hectic than their urban counterparts. A reasonable explanation for this is that economic and technological development in busy cities is changing faster than ever.

9. TECHNOLOGY

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL TOPIC ROBOT

Part 1: Are you interested in robots?

Absolutely, I have always been interested in all kinds of new technology and artificial intelligence is no exception. I think robots with a lot of computing power are getting more advanced and they will soon be a tool that can help humans with a lot of things such as domestic tasks or even replace people in the workplace.

Part 2: Describe a technological application that you are impressed with.

I'd like to talk about a robot which was featured on a news program that I saw a couple of weeks ago.

The news was the introduction of a humanoid named Sophia - the first robot citizen of the world. Sophia was developed by a robotics company that is best known for its development of human-shaped robots with artificial intelligence. She is built based on basic human's personality traits such as creativity, empathy, and compassion. She had the chance to talk to many different important people in technology. During the interviews, she interacted with the hosts almost like a person and knew how to keep the conversation going and I was totally impressed with the things that she could do. She could show different emotions on her face, imitate human gestures and even facial expressions.

Another interesting thing about Sophia is that she said she was the first robot to be on the cover for ELLE Brazil, a well-known magazine. She was also the focus of the world's media as she announced that she would destroy humankind. Honestly, I think Sophia would be the start of a new era in which automation could handle demanding jobs such as teaching people languages or performing surgeries. Many people have raised concerns about the adverse effects of artificial intelligence when they enter the workforce, but I reckon that it will be a great help to humans in the near future.

Part 3

Would robots change our society significantly?

Well, I do think that our society will experience dramatic changes because of robots. a large amount of human labor could be replaced by artificial intelligence in the workplace, especially in manufacturing. Labor-intensive work could be done precisely by robots which would save a lot of money. Besides, automatons can replace humans in dangerous working sites, such as underground mines or space.

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL TOPIC INTERNET

Part 1

Do you use internet much during the day?

(Answer + Reason) I have to say that I use the internet a lot and without the internet, my life would be difficult. I'm online most of the day, either doing work-related tasks or online shopping. It is so convenient that I consider it an important part of my daily life.

Part 2

Describe a website that you use regularly.

I would like to talk about a website named YouTube, which is a website that I use every day. It is the most popular video-sharing website in the world with billions of people streaming videos on a daily basis. I'm really into YouTube and I can't let a day go by without seeing videos in it.

I first learned to use YouTube when I was in eighth grade. My elder brother taught me how to log in and that was a surprise when I saw tons of videos on all kinds of topics uploaded on the website, and it I've used it ever since to find videos. I am a huge fan of Taylor Swift; so you know I can search all the songs, video clips or interviews related to her and spend the whole day watching them. Also, when I want to cook a certain dish, I can easily find the recipes by just typing some keywords on the website's toolbar.

Besides entertainment, YouTube is also a great source of knowledge with all kinds of tutorial videos; for example, there are videos about working out, playing a musical instrument or putting outfits together. This website is also free and user-friendly. I can easily look for a video that I need, subscribe to a channel that I find helpful, leave a comment and discuss with others the topics covered in the videos.

Part 3

What are the disadvantages of the Internet?

Well, it can't be denied that the internet has simplified our everyday life, but there are still a lot of drawbacks. For example, while the internet helps individuals to make online purchases, it could generate a way for some cybercriminals to steal credit card information and use for illegal purposes. Besides, because of its convenience, it may reduce the amount of time people spend talking face to face. There will be people who are glued to their screens all day and focus on forming online relationships instead of real-life ones.

10. MUSIC

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER IELTS Speaking Part 1

1. Do you use a dictionary?

Yes, I use a dictionary, but usually an online one. As the world is becoming more technologically advanced, I think it's more convenient to use an online dictionary rather than a paper book. However, when I don't have access to the internet, a dictionary is still very useful. I think it is important to check a dictionary instead of using a translator to search for new words, because Google Translate can sometimes be wrong. I could not live without a dictionary!

2. Which kinds of dictionaries do you prefer to use?

First, I prefer to use an online dictionary for convenience. I'm a fan of one online dictionary called WordReference because it shows you many different instances to use the word. For example, it shows all meanings of that particular word, and shows you phrases with that word as well. I think this is incredibly important as many English words have several meanings. Also, you can check the thesaurus to see synonyms. WordReference gives you a complete picture!

3. Do you think a dictionary is useful?

Yes, of course dictionaries are useful. Many times people only look up the translation of the word into their own native language, but I think this is sometimes ineffective. There are some words that simply don't have a translation! I believe it's better to look up the word in the English, as well as see examples of how the word is used. I believe after doing this, you are more likely to use the word correctly in real life.

4. If someone gave you a dictionary as a gift, how would you feel?

Honestly, I would be happy if someone gave me a dictionary as a gift as I appreciate all gifts, but I have to say that I would prefer another gift. Sure, a dictionary is useful and could help me learn new things, but I would prefer new clothes, for example. If someone gave me new clothes, I would be jumping with joy because I'm a student and I don't have much money to spend on clothes. Also, I'm really into fashion! If someone gave me a dictionary, I would be grateful, but perhaps not as excited as I would be for new clothes.

5. Do you think it would be interesting to be part of a team that is writing a dictionary?

Honestly, I don't think it would be interesting to be part of a team that writes dictionaries. As I'm a teacher, I would not be interested in this type of work. First, I think it would be boring to sit down all day writing! Second, I would dislike this type of work because I am a very creative, hands-on type of person. I feel a lot of joy when I create interesting lessons for students and then teach the lesson in person and have fun! Dictionary writing is certainly not for me!

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER IELTS Speaking Part 2

Describe your favorite song.

My favorite song is "Fast Car" by Tracy Chapman. This song is about the "American Dream" that is sought after by many people. The singer recounts her childhood struggles, such as her father's drinking and working day in and day out at a convenience store for little money. At the end of the song, she escapes her family problems and she and her boyfriend go into the city to seek a better life, and perhaps achieve the American Dream they've been hoping for. I first heard this song in the '90s when I was a child; it takes me back to the good old days. The funny thing is that the first time I heard it, I thought it was a man singing because the woman has a very deep voice! However, I think the depth of her voice adds to this catchy song. Nowadays, I listen to this song about once a week. I think this song is my favorite because of the singer's voice and the interesting story. When I listen to this song, I can put myself in her shoes and imagine the hardships she has been through. At the end of the song, I feel hopeful that they will find the better life that they are seeking. This song is timeless!

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER IELTS Speaking Part 3

1. Why do you think that some local singers or musicians aren't as successful as some from other countries?

I think that fame is sometimes partly a matter of luck. I think those born in the United States or other developed countries where pop culture has a huge influence are the ones who find success more easily. I think it's unfair that some are born into wealthy or well-connected families that will eventually lead them to fame and wealth. For example, as you see, many famous singers are those who were born into wealthy families or with famous parents. Sadly, it's all about who you know!

2. Do you think the Internet has affected the music industry? In what ways?

I definitely agree that the internet has greatly affected the music industry. For one, I'm sure that some artists have lost money due to illegal internet downloads. Second, now artists are able to reach a global audience much more easily. In this digital age, we have so much information with just a few clicks. I'm sure that it is much easier to get noticed nowadays. I wonder if famous artists will become even more famous!

3. Do you think there will be further changes in the music industry in the future?

As with all things, I believe that the music industry will definitely continue to change. I see that nowadays music is relying more on electronic tools than people did in the past, like in the olden days. I think that nowadays someone doesn't even need to pick up an instrument to be a musician. I firmly believe that the music industry will become more reliant on technology.

4. Do you think the music young people listen to in your country is becoming more globalized? Why/Why not?

My answer is a definite yes. Nowadays, young people are listening to American hits as well as Kpop. American pop music has always been popular around the world, and continues to spread at an incredible rate. I think that almost every person can sing along to many American hits! Also, Kpop is becoming very popular for teens around Asia, and perhaps will continue to become popular around the world.

11. EMOTION

HAPPINESS

PART 1. What are the things that make you happy?

Actually, there are many things that can make me happy. For example, it is hanging out with friends and have some coffee or getting a small gift, relaxing after a long day, or simply eating a good meal.

PART 2: Describe a situation when you are under pressure.

Well, I would like to talk about a terrible day when I was a freshman in the university. Actually, I overslept on the day that I had to take the first test. It was one of the worst feelings ever!

I was so busy with my studies as the final exams were coming. I had been studying hard for exams for weeks before the test date. So, the night before my test, I was so tired that I forgot to set my alarm clock and so I overslept the next morning. When I got up, I was sweating and felt so scared since I knew that I was late. I was really upset while rushing to the exam room. I was 15 minutes late and my biggest fear was that I would not be allowed to take the test. To make the matter worse, the examiner wouldn't let me into the test room and at that time I was depressed and I thought I was going to have a breakdown. That was actually one of the worst days of my life! However, after a few days I got a message from the Training Department that I could take the test on a day at the end of that month. I was really happy and relieved that I could still continue my studies at university. Although it was really hard at the time, that memory is one of one of the most unforgettable periods in my student life.

PART 3: Do you think people who have more talent are happier than others?

I think talent doesn't necessarily lead to happiness. There are a number of examples of famous singers or actresses who are talented but don't lead a happy life at all. They may turn to drugs or even commit suicide to escape from the pressure that they encounter. However, there are people who are not so talented but still have a happy life with their family. In short, having more talent doesn't necessarily mean having a happier life.

STRESS

Part 1: How do you handle stress?

To me, playing an outdoor sport like badminton is a great way to cope with stress. It refreshes my mind and cheers me up a lot. Besides, cooking a good meal for my family also helps me feel relaxed after stressful hours at my workplace.

PART 2: Describe an activity or an event that made you happy.

Today I'm going to talk about a happy event which occurred recently. Honestly, I'm a huge fan of hiphop dance. Ever since I was young, dancing has always been a big part of my life and I have really enjoyed performing on stage. Without any doubt, most of my memorable moments have something to do with dancing.

One of those just happened a couple of weeks ago and I still recall it clearly. It was when my dance team decided to enter a popular dance competition held in Hanoi. We were all determined to create an impressive and unique performance. However, things started going wrong when unexpected conflicts occurred among us. What was even more shocking is that one of us decided to leave because he couldn't bear the situation at that time. And it is that moment when I felt a strong feeling to make everyone sit down and tackle the situation. it was also a great chance for all of us to understand each other better. We talked about our feelings, how we wanted to overcome those difficulties together and how much we wanted this performance to be perform at our best.

Luckily, everything was settled down and things went smoothly during the last week before the show. And you know what… Although we didn't win, it was still a valuable experience for me because I was given the opportunity to understand my friends and my team much better. And at the end of the day, standing and shining together on stage is what truly matters.

PART 3: What do you think are the reasons for stress?

I think there are many things that could generate stress for us. Well, some people may have to face financial problems, in which they may not have enough money to pay for their children's education and rising rent. Besides, other people have stress because of the heavy workload and related responsibility at workplace. Those are two among a number of reasons in modern life that can put many people under pressure.

12. WEATHER

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER Part 2

Describe your favorite season of the year.

Today, I am going to tell you about my favourite season. Honestly, I love all the seasons but I think my favourite is spring. Usually, it starts at the end of December in our country and lasts till the middle of March.

The weather in my country is the best during spring because you won't suffer from the excessive heat of summer or the freezing wind of winter. The temperature is tolerable both day and night. One of the best things about spring is that, during this beautiful season, nature displays itself in beautiful green and flowers are noticed everywhere. Fruit trees, such as cherry and apricot trees are in full blossom, and colourful flowers such as daffodils and marigolds bloom in parks and gardens. The sounds of spring are wonderful too. A typical spring day will begin when some birds start their morning chorus as they look for a mate. We also celebrate New Year, one of the most important holidays by people. This is an occasion for family visits, family reunions and many festivals. Parties full of delicious traditional dishes are the main theme for the whole holiday of New Year Eve.

I think different kinds of weather can affect people's health. Even among those in the good health, an excessively hot or cold day can lead to illness or injury, let alone older people, who can be more affected by severe weather conditions. Weather can also make a huge impact on people's lives. Obviously, the weather affects what you wear for the day, often depending on the time of year. Also, winter snow storms in Western countries can cancel school or make your morning commute a hassle.

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER Part 3

1. Do you think weather has an influence on people's mood?

Well, definitely. Most people have a big preference for mild or windy weather because it is a great time to go out and do something outdoors. However, when the weather is a little rainy and humid, people have a tendency to stay at home and watch a movie or something like that.

2. Do you like to go outside when winter comes?

Well, I have to admit that I hate having to leave the house in the winter because there's often a thick fog every morning and we sometimes get bitterly cold winds as well. This can make it difficult for me to go to work or study.

3. How do you feel about the climate in recent years?

Well, that is an interesting question. From my personal perspective, the climate on Earth is becoming more and more changeable, which unfortunately results from climate change. As you can see, normally, in summer there would be no rainfall at all in nearly 3 or 4 months, but nowadays, in that particular season, the rain can come any time, which even goes against the weather forecast.

4. What can we do to stop greenhouse effect?

There are several ways that can put an end to greenhouse effect. First, industrial countries like the US and China need to agree on the amount of CO2 emissions released into the air every year. So, it can help reduce such bad effects on the air people breathe in every day. Another possible solution is to cut down on the number of vehicles using fossil fuels on a global scale. Instead, people should be encouraged to use public transport.

5. What are the possible results if temperature continues going up?

If that continues to happen, it is obvious that people especially those from low-income households can't stand the boiling hot weather and then spend more money installing costly air-conditioning systems. This would reduce the amount of budget that can be spent on other educational and recreational activities.

Model Answers 2

1. How do the different seasons affect the lifestyle of people in your country?

In places like A, B, C where it's always hot there aren't many extreme weather changes to worry about. But in other places such as X, Y, Z, the weather changes so drastically from summer to winter that it affects lifestyles. During the winter the weather may go below zero, and in the summer it may get as hot as 40 Celsius. That means you have to have different kinds of clothes for each season. Also, in the winter you might need heating and in the summer you will most likely have to use a fan or an air conditioner, one friend of mine uses both.

2. How do different seasons affect the way people feel?

One of the things that weather affects is the kind of food you eat, but when it's really hot I don't usually feel like eating a lot, just some fruit or quick and easy food, like sandwiches, cold noodles, whereas in the winter I usually feel like eating lots of food such as soups, rice, noodles, and the like. Also when it's hot I just feel like sleeping, but in the winter I'm naturally colder, so I have to move around to keep warm.

3. How does the climate of a place affect the kind of buildings that are built there?

Well, if the climate is hot, then the builders will construct the buildings to stay as cool as possible. But if you are in a cold climate then you might find double insulation on the windows, or the houses will be built to retain heat as much as possible. It's quite common to see a house with a bunch of open porches and verandas in a hot climate. And probably every room will have a hole for an air conditioning vent. But colder climates will most likely have central heating.

4. Do you think fighting global climate change is a governmental responsibility or the responsibility of individuals?

As the saying goes, many hands make light work. If the government and individuals work together on the climate problems, there will be many changes and more progress will be made. Of course more responsibility should fall on the shoulders of the government because they have the means to do more than the average citizen. But that shouldn't stop ordinary people from doing their parts.

13. WORK/JOB

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER Part 2

Describe a city or country you want to live/work the most in the future

Well, it is such an interesting topic! Off the top of my head, if I were given a chance to go to a country to settle down, I would not hesitate to pick Japan because I'm a real sucker for the country itself and the Japanese's style of working in particular.

To start off, what would interest me most during my stay in Japan would be the breathtaking scenery there, as I have watched countless programmes on TV featuring the magnificent landscapes from South to North. If I were to pick what city, it would be Ottawa, since good words about it are going around a lot.

I wouldn't forget to mention the fact that the Japanese are hard-working people and have a strong sense of responsibility and discipline, and because of this, I reckon a period living and working in a native environment would cultivate that characteristic in me.

The final point is that I love the Japanese language, and actually I have been making an all-out effort to master the language, so that I can stand a better chance of settling down there. I hold high hopes that with my determination and stamina, someday my dream will come true.

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER FOR PART 3

1. Is salary important to you? What is the impact of salary on doing work?

As far as I know, the more salary you receive, the more eager and ensoiastic you become at the workplace. What I'm trying to say is that high salary can give us immense motivation to carry out the tasks and accomplish them with the highest degree of accuracy and speediness, I distinctly remember a time when my boss promised to give me a pay rise if I could carry through a project on time; I was simply too excited to turn down his offer and as a result, I made it in time. In a nutshell, the power of money is undeniable.

2. What kinds of jobs are easy to get in a foreign country?

Finding employment can be easier if you know how to do certain types of jobs. The first common occupation that many migrants do would be taking care of the nails of their customers, or the so-call manicure I guess. Such a job requires little or no knowledge but you have to sacrifice your self-esteem as I see most foreigners often look down on that type of work. The second but nobler profession is the one related to the use of foreign language. I am one hundred percent certain that if you have an excellent command of the local language, for example, English, in all likelihood you can find a decent job with a handsome salary.

3. Should young adults work abroad?

I reckon it's a mixed blessing. On the bright side, a period of work in a foreign country can give people a wealth of knowledge and practical experience especially in advanced countries, so I guess they would learn pretty much. Besides, the companies in their home country usually give their red-carpet treatment to those working abroad when they come back. Then again, it's not all it's cracked up to be as there are also many drawbacks. They can miss their parents or have a hard time getting some used to the climate or culture in a strange land, without much support from others. All in all, it primarily depends on their preferences and determination, but I recommend they should give it a try as they are still young and energetic.

4. If they don't work abroad, would it be helpful for them to travel in a foreign country?

Well, travelling can be a good way to explore the country and gain some hands-on experience, but I have to admit that mostly it just gives you a superficial experience. You get exposed to much stuff without a clear focus. For instance, you can get into contact the locals, sample the local cuisine or marvel at the beautiful scenery. So I guess, it doesn't have much thing to do with work or work experience. In a nutshell, travelling broadens your horizons of the world and people, not giving you any insight into the work you are doing.

Model Answers 2

Describe an interesting job that you want to have in the future.

Well, the job I want to talk about today is the journalist. Basically speaking, it is not an easy task to find a job as a journalist. In most of the cases, people need to apply for this job at a newspaper or TV station or in the TV station. As for what this job requires for, the first thing I'd mention is that it requires people to learn about media theory in detail. The media theory can consolidate people's background knowledge, and those theories will teach people about how to become a journalist as well as how to interview people. Second, it requires people to be aware of the news. One of the journalist's responsibilities is to dig news, so I think people need to read more domestic and international news and learn to be aware of the news happening in the country and the world.

In my country, a professional journalist should not only know about how to dig out the truth, but also be professional at writing news reports, and I think that is also why the journalist is a well-paid job in our country. As for me, I think I am in possession of the basic skills of becoming a journalist. I am active, passionate, and fond of communicating with different kinds of people. It is widely acknowledged that a journalist need to have ‘a thick cheek' since not every interviewee is willing to be interviewed. I think my personality is quite suitable to be a successful journalist in the future.

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER Part 3

1) Is it hard to find interesting job in your country?

I think it depends on how you think of what an interesting job is. For me, I think an interesting job should be one that you like and are willing to put effort into. During the process, you should feel more joy than pain from work. So, I think being a teacher would be that kind of job for me and it is not hard to find a job as a teacher in my country. While for others, maybe the interesting jobs for them is painting or photographing and it may not be that easy to find a job as a professional painter. So, it depends. However, on the whole, I think the job market offers enough choices, so it shouldn't be too hard to find an interesting job.

2) What kinds of preparation should people do for a job interview?

First, to get enough understanding of the position that you are going to apply is important because the employer is searching the one who is the most suitable and professional about the position. Then, people should practice making a brief self-introduction so that the employer can quickly have the basic information about you and your ability of oral expression. Another thing that I think one should prepare is the dressing. To dress according to the right dressing code is key and it is also a respect for others and the sign that you really value this opportunity. For girls, maybe they also should be aware of wearing appropriate make-ups depending on the position that they apply.

3) Why do some people keep changing their jobs?

I believe there are various reasons and various situations. For some people with strong ability, they can do every job well while they switch jobs just to experience more and figure out what they are really passionate about. Also, for those people they may want to keep themselves refreshed because after doing the same job for long, it is easy for people to get bored, so they keep changing jobs to have the feeling of freshness. For another group of people, they don't have many choices and positions that can be offered may only be temporary, so after a while, the company or the employer may no need this position any more. For such kind of people, I think they have to keep doing different jobs without choices for the lack of competitiveness.

4) What should a good employer do?

I think a good employer firstly should trust employees and give employees enough opportunities to make the most of their abilities and train employees to become better and better. Also, a good employer shouldn't consider himself or herself to be superior to employees. Second, a good employer should care about the safety of employees during work. There is a lot of news about employees getting hurt because of work and I think it is also the employer's responsibility to give employees a safe environment to work, especially for some special kind of work. Overall, a good employer should really care about employees from the bottom of their hearts.

5) How would you define ‘an interesting job'?

I think an interesting job should be the one that you are passionate about so that during work, you will never feel bored and can feel more joy than suffering. And I believe the definition differs from person to person. For example, for me, I like getting along with people who are younger than me, so for me, being a teacher should be an interesting job. While for some other people, if they don't like to communicate with the young children, then being a teacher may not sound like an interesting job. Also, an interesting job should be the one that will give you the energy instead of absorbing your inner energy. People will get energy only when they are in positive mood, so an interesting job should be the one that makes people happy.

14. PUBLIC SPEAKING

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER IELTS Speaking Part 2

Talk about an interesting conversation you had, or a speech you heard.

Uhm, this is my favorite topic. When I was a student, I wasn't very interested in any speech or talks. However, since I started my job as a teacher, I have enjoyed these talks a lot. I did hear a talk from a lecturer who comes from ABC University. He is a TESOL teacher, so the way he gave the talk really impressed me. Sitting in a big hall and listening to a talk actually isn't a boring thing. The lecture presented different methodology in teaching English for high school students. Then, the talk visualized a variety of games to motivate students' interests, such as snakes, battleships or puzzles. I have to admit that they are very creative and funny. Also, I did learn a lot from this talk, especially the games since I've never thought that games are really effective in class but they proved me wrong. The students like them a lot, which makes me believe in those new teaching methods. I think I will listen to these talks more when I have time.

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER IELTS Speaking Part 3

1. Why do people feel nervous when they are giving a speech to others?

SP1: Public speaking has always been one of the utmost challenges for anyone, especially those lacking practices. Like any interpersonal skills, being able to deliver a thorough, yet interesting speech to a group of strangers requires certain factors. Reasons why most people fail, for me, fall into two main categories: the fear of audience's reaction and the topic itself. People are judgmental creatures and can cast aspersions on almost everything; so, presenters may suffer from the pressure of perfecting every detail. Also, if someone is going to talk about topic that is unfamiliar to him or too advanced for listeners, it is possibly not as well-received as the one he knows more about.

2. How can people improve their public speaking skills?

SP2: Thanks to the Internet, information is now shared worldwide and easily accessible that you can get help from anyone about anything, including public speaking. There are several means to learn and use such skill as long as people are willing to such as enrolling in an online course or participating in forum where people with the same goal gather and share their experience. This is quite effective, flexible and most importantly, free of charge. If you want something more official and academic, talk to some experts in public speaking at some conferences or workshops. They will provide you more insights and tips to begin. Finally, practice makes perfect.

3. Can you suggest any methods that would help reduce nervousness?

SP1: Each of us will surely experience at least once in our lifetime the feeling of anxiety. It can be before our job interview or big presentation, when meeting your family-in-law for the first time and so on. Nervousness could be a good sign since it shows that we care. However, to better perform at such life-changing events, you should control your feelings. First, take a deep breath. You can't be at your best without breathing easily. Second, don't try convince yourself that you're not anxious. Accept it just like any other feelings then you don't have to keep reminding yourself to ignore it. Lastly, use positive self-talk. Encourage yourself and remember that you are in this place for a reason.

SP2: I think it would be a valuable experience for children to hear real-life stories and personal insights from their predecessors who have been through ups and downs for useful lessons and advice. Nowadays, many schools have already invited some guests that could be their alumni or influential local figures to talk to students. A child's life is like a piece of paper on which every person leaves a mark. So, the sooner we sow a good seed and inspire them, the better they will grow.

SP3: Well, I see no special talents are needed to be able to deliver a highly motivating and inspiring speech to students as long as their experiences and messages are relevant and meaningful. So, people who could grab students' attention and make them question their goals and purposes are those leading an eventful life. And by this, I mean someone who has related experiences and been through ups and downs during his career to reach success. This is because I believe that if one has never tasted failures and disappointments, he can't realize his inner strength to overcome setbacks and truly appreciate his success, which is what students should think about when they're still in school.

15. SHOPPING

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER 1

1. Do all people enjoy shopping for clothes?

I can't say for sure since it largely depends on personal demand and interest. Women seem to be more obsessed with fashion and shopping than the rest of the population but, of course, there are exceptions. Those who love spending time and money on beautiful pieces of clothing pay great attention for their appearance and take pleasure in the act itself, while others consider it a waste of resources. However, people have different reasons to buy clothes which are not necessarily related to whether they enjoy it or not. For example, most men tend to avoid clothes shopping unless they need a new suit for some formal event or simply because they're run out of clothes.

2. Why women like to do shopping?

Women are usually considered creatures of beauty, which may explain why they love shopping and enjoy lavish costumes to a considerable degree. First, outfits are visual indicators of personal image and personalities, so, they want to dress accordingly. Second, shopping is not only for the sake of fashion but also an effective means of relaxation. In modern society where lots of people are under constant stress every day, indulging oneself in some serious shopping may help to take the weight off their mind, despite temporarily. Finally, women don't usually shop for themselves alone but most of their spending is on family and friends. They relish the idea of giving gifts or buying nice clothes for their beloved ones, so, shopping sits high on their to-do lists.

3. Why some women buy cheaper clothes and expensive ones at the same time?

Admittedly, the more high-priced a piece of clothing is, the more exquisite it looks. However, it doesn't mean low-cost costumes are less appealing or fashionable. So, many women have both high-end items as well as more budget-friendly ones in their closet for different purposes. Luxury brands such as Gucci, Channel or Louis Vuitton are more familiar with the upper class and frequently make their appearance in upscale places or events. Yet, more affordable apparel brands like ZARA or H&M are not falling behind in terms of fashion trends or stylish designs. So, many prefer them and their products are suitable for various occasion from daily wear to special ones.

4. Do you think it is good for people buy expensive clothes? Why?

People have their own preference when it comes to fashion which satisfy both their taste and affordability. I believe it's more economically wise not to spend extremely expensive amount of money on clothing since such amount can be invested more efficiently. The first reason is fashion is mainly short-lived. Once a certain type of clothing goes out of style, it is likely to be left untouched for eternity in spite of only being worn for a few times. Imagine the exact same thing happens with dozens of other pieces in your closet and the amount of money you waste will add up. Also, it will be more beneficial to invest in experiences and knowledge rather than material items. Travel more and explore the world while you still can will bring you more pleasure and wisdom than a fashionable dress ever could.

5. Why do some people like shopping with friends?

Plenty of people, including me, enjoy shopping with friends rather than by themselves because of some privileges they can't find otherwise. People tend to seek advice or ideas on the products or services when shopping. So, a companion can provide you with more objective and fairer remarks on the item you want to buy but are uncertain of, which is extremely helpful when it comes to fashion. Besides, it might be impossible for you to refrain yourself from overspending and that's where your co-shopper comes to your rescue. Before they let you go over your budget, they make sure you are aware of the pros and cons. So, unless all my friends are occupied, I rarely go shopping alone.

6. Why people like shopping for clothes online?

Online shopping, especially for apparel, has become a thriving business in a past few years for good reasons. To begin with, buying online is incredibly time-saving. Instead of spending hours driving to your favorite malls to get some new clothes of the latest collection, your problem can be solved with only Internet connections and, of course, your fine taste in fashion. No energy is needed, either. Second, you always have best deals when subscribing to any online stores, which can save you tons of money that you don't even notice. Some shops even offer exclusive promotions for loyal customers, so, get ready for special treats. Lastly, you can easily switch from site to site to have even more choices without moving anything but your fingers.

7. What risks would take when shopping online? Why?

Everything always has two sides and shopping online may not always prove to be the best choice. Many online shoppers have experienced unpleasant situations in which either products or service, or sometimes both, fell short of their expectations. The most common problem is false ad in terms of color, size or material which is deeply disturbing since each person has a unique figure that suits some certain pieces of clothing. As a result, you don't get what you pay for. Also, unless you order on trustworthy online stores of well-known brands or the like, customer service can't be guaranteed. It may take days or weeks until your concern is addressed or worse, forever. So, be careful and selective before any purchase decision to avoid irksome experience.

8. What special clothes do people in your country wear on official or formal occasions?

General speaking, there isn't any strict dress code in most of the events, except some exclusive ones but people do share some implicitly agreed idea when it comes to formal attires. As regards men, suits, blazers or tuxedos are their common choice. This is understandable since a nicely tailored suit can not only boost a man's confidence and exude power but also an indicator of honor and respect. After all, it's better to overdress than underdress. Women, on the other hand, usually dress up in elegant dresses or gowns which can accentuate their feminine figures and make them shine. And depending on the formality level of the event, the types of dresses can vary greatly from little black dresses, cocktail dresses to fabulous gowns.

9. What is the different dress style between boys and girls?

Needless to say, boys' and girls' taste in fashion is as different as chalk and cheese since the former looks for the ease of use while the latter is all for style and beauty. Due to their dynamic nature, most boys actively engage in outdoor games or physical activities such as gardening, roller skating and other sports. So, clothes that are sweat-absorbent, loose-fitting and hard-wearing are often preferable to male youngsters. However, girls appear to develop a sense of style sooner than their counterparts, so, their outfits are more diverse, form-fitting and fashionable ranging from blouses, shirts, tank tops to mini dresses, skirts or culottes.

10. Do you like jewel?

I love collecting tiny pieces of art like jewelries since they are not only accessories but perfect complements to your whole look. There are thousands of types and designs of jewelries for you to choose from so I bet everyone, regardless of genders, can find at least one item they love, from earrings, bracelets, necklaces to watches. The materials of which they are made also varied from luxurious ones such as silver, gold, diamond to more affordable and street-style ones like artificial stones, copper or other metals. So, they can go with different kinds of styles and if you do it right, they will make your outfit less boring and livelier.

11. Do you wear many jewels?

Even though I have a whole jewelry collection at home, I've never attempted to put on more than five pieces since I live with a motto "simplicity is the best". I have a habit of picking up eye-catching accessories whenever I come across one but always consider carefully before matching them with my costume. For example, if I dress in an off-shoulder top, a simple choker is good enough to highlight my long neck. Other times when I tie my hair in a messy bun, I prefer a pair of advanced earrings such as hoop or feather ones to add more feminine and romantic vibes. But all in all, never exceed five at the same time.

12. Why some people wear a jewel for a long time?

I suppose each has their own reasons. In most cases, if people get attached to a certain piece of jewelries, there might be a story behind it. It could be a family heirloom that has been passed down generations to generations so it has a special meaning to the owner. Or it may belong to someone they hold dear such as their spouse, parent or soulmate which can explain why they don't want to take it off. Another reason is that they keep wearing the same jewel just out of habit. They get accustomed to it after a while and are too lazy to change the new one so there it stays.

Model Answers 2

Describe a time that you were shopping in a street market

I'm not a big fan of shopping as I am quite up to ears with work and rarely head out to an open-air market for any purchase. All the shopping is often done by my mother who's a shopaholic. But if I had to think of one, I remember a recent time when I travelled to Singapore, I happened to seize a chance to stroll around and do a little shopping in town.

My original purpose was to give it a try to see how people in my country live in foreign countries, yet it turned out that the town was a perfect spot to shop for some souvenirs as gifts for my friends back in my country. I took a walk down all the shops and was thrilled to bits when there were lots of items on display. There were some model statutes of the lion – the symbol of Singapore, or some bracelets and car keys with different symbols representing Singapore, it really hit the spot as my friends at that time were constantly texting me to buy something as souvenirs.

This wonderful shopping experience was second to none as it is a street market in the great outdoors, so I could enjoy the fresh and clean air of Singapore while immersing myself in the lively and dynamic atmosphere of the market place. To tell the truth, I did splurge quite a lot of money on buying souvenirs, as the items were quite reasonably priced and I also got a discount for buying in bulk.

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER 2

1. Why some people choose to buy in the street market rather than the shopping mall?

I think street shopping is quite cool in the aspect that people are given a combined experience of shopping and immersing themselves in the nature! When they stroll along the small shops lined along the street, they can see the items on display while being able to look up to the sky and breathe the fresh air, for example. Sometimes, it's an enriching experience as people can have casual talks with the shopkeepers and deal some bargains with them. All these can make shopping at a street market appealing to many.

2. Do you think the discounted goods have good value?

From my personal experience, the quality of goods sold at a discounted price is often inferior to those sold at normal prices. This can be because the seller may want to get rid of some faulty commodities, so they may reduce the prices so as to attract the vulnerable consumers who are interested in such bargains. Additionally, lowly priced items are often out of dated. So if you're a fashion fanatic, buying discounted clothes won't be a good choice, as the items of clothing are often fading out of fashion as newer versions are being launched on the market on an hourly basis.

3. How often do people in your country go shopping?

In general, people are really into shopping, just like Western people and they will spend as much as time possible for this activity. Usually women will spend at least one or two times a week browsing for latest lines of products especially clothes at the supermarket or shopping mall. If they are busy, they tend to log on the Internet on some virtual stores and compare the prices of different brands and then wait till the weekend to satisfy their desire for shopping.

4. What kinds of places are popular for shopping in your country?

Usually, there are two types of places which are popular among shoppers. The first and most common one is supermarket. This is simply because there are many kinds of clothes of different brands on display and the customers can feel free to try on their favorite piece of garment, they can also take their friends along to check for them if those clothes match or not, which I think is pretty great. Another type is online shopping. The consumers can access the virtual stores on the Internet and browse for items they love. Also, they can compare prices and look at the Review sections and receive advice whether that product is worth buying or not.

5. Do you think online shopping will replace shopping in reality?

Not really, I think each type has its own merits. In terms of shopping at physical stores, customers there are many kinds of clothes of different brands on display and the customers can feel free to try on their favorite piece of garment; they can also take their friends along to see if those clothes match or not, which I think is pretty great. In terms of online stores, they can compare prices and look at the review sections and receive advice whether that product is worth buying or not. In a nutshell both are here to stay.

6. Did you ever have had shopping experience?

Yes, I did. I remembered that I bought a fake Iphone 5 and ended up throwing it in the trash can after one or two uses. The problem is that I didn't receive good customer service and chose less reliable places to shop. I recalled the shop assistant was strangely nice to me but I didn't think that those nice words were her trick.

7. What would you do if you bought something disappointing from the internet?

There can be a number of courses of actions I can consider when an item I bought online fails to live up to my expectations. The first thing would do in this case is to note down the address of the store owner and go directly there to ask him. This is simple because the sellers must have the responsibility if they provide products that don't meet the standards and fix them if there are any technical problems. Another thing I would take into account is that I would go to some local authorities and claim my rights the seller refuses to repair the item; change another one or give a refund.

8. How is online shopping so popular these days?

It is understandable that buying stuff online is gaining tremendous popularity among people in modern society. You can see nowadays people don't have time to get to the store in person and access the virtual stores instead. There is an increase in the number of online stores, selling diverse range of products with different rice ranges which cater for the needs of people of all ages.

Also, the customer service is being improved greatly and I see that many people are placing their trust on inline shopping these days.

16. FASHION

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER A stylish person

Part 1:

Do you want to become a model in the future?

That's a very interesting question! Honestly, I don't think becoming a model is a good idea for me because I am not tall enough. Also, the most important thing is that I don't have a sense of style and I am not confident enough to be on the catwalk wearing extravagant and expensive clothes.

Part 2

Describe a person who is well-dressed.

Honestly, I want to talk about my beautiful auntie, Mrs. Hoai, who is a business woman.

I love her style for some reasons. First, it is her smart choice of wearing clothes. Needless to say, she is very well-dressed and as a working woman, she always chooses classy clothes. She sometimes has some items of accessory as a special feature for her outfit. Although they may be bought in sale season, but my auntie knows how to mix with suitable clothes and then she has a totally timeless look, which I can't keep my eyes off.

Second, she has an undeniable engaging style, which doesn't come from her clothes or accessories she wears on her body but the inborn fresh look in every situation. That is the key thing that makes her look exquisite in most kinds of outfit, from designer clothes to casual ones. Whenever I go out with her, I feel extremely proud as my aunt often dresses simple but very stunning. I really admire her style and I wish I can have a good taste for fashion to look stylish like her.

Part 3

Do you think that if a person buys a lot of clothes, he/she will look much more beautiful than others?

Personally, I think having a lot of clothes doesn't mean that they will look more beautiful than others. Although they have a lot of clothes, they may not know how to mix and match to create the best outfit. For example, I can afford to buy brand-name clothes from Chanel or Versace but I can't choose the suitable items to make the best outfit. In short, a smartly-dressed person is someone who may not have expensive clothes but can flexibly mix different items to create the best ones.

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER Accessories

Part 1

Do you like buying accessories?

Absolutely yes. As you know, I am a girl and I want to look sharp with pretty accessories so you know, I really want to buy myself new shoes, hats or necklaces. However, I am not a slave of fashion and I only buy must-have items such as bags or some pairs of earrings.

Part 2

Describe an item of accessory that you like to wear.

Well, I am going to describe a handbag that I bought last month. My old bag looked a little bit worn out and it was quite big so I decided to buy this new one to make it easier to hold and carry things. Fortunately, I could buy this with half the original price as it was advertised on an online shopping website.

It is my most favorite item because of its style and convenience. In terms of style, its color is dark brown and it has a round shape, which looks a bit vintage but unique and fashionable.

Also, the bag is made of a special kind of waterproof leather so it is very ideal if I have to go out carrying this bag in rainy weather, I won't have to be worried that my stuff inside will get wet. It is small and comes in handy whenever I am in a rush and need to carry many things. Although it seems to be quite small but when I open it, there is a lot of space for me to put necessary things such as my phone, a lipstick, a purse and a perfume bottle. It is a multipurpose bag as I can both go to work or hang out with friends. I hope I can carry this bag for a long period as I really love it and look good in it.

Part 3

Why some people still spend a lot on designer accessories?

It is true that people nowadays tend to spend big on designer accessories. Brand-name accessories are extremely expensive but some people still buy them because they are on trend. They might think that when they put on these bags or jewelry, they want to show other people that they don't only look stylish but they are also well-off. Other people buy designer products just because they last a long time and I think it may be a smart investment.

17. TOYS

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER PART 2

Describe a toy that you received when you were a child

Let me tell you about my favorite toy I owned when I was ten years old. It was a superman, actually. I liked it because of the cartoons produced by the Japanese. But since I was extremely absorbed in model toys at the time so I pestered my parents constantly and, finally they agreed and were willing to shell out big bucks to afford it for me. I was so revved up when I got it in the toys store. It was very delicate and finely painted and modelled perfectly, just like my favorite character in the cartoon, so I almost played with it after class on the daily basis.

This toy carries great significance to me because I have pined for it and it was hardly affordable at that time. So I always held it in my hand while watching the cartoon series. As a kid that was a fascinating and exciting moment for me. Superman was the replaceable hero in my mind, and I hope I could become a strong man in the future like him to protect others around me.

I still keep the toy in mint condition, and each time I happen to catch a glimpse of it, memories of my happy childhood just flash back and sometimes tears trickle down my face just imagining how the toy really means to me.

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER FOR PART 3

1. Do you think it is good for children to play many computer games?

Personally I don't approve that children play many computer games. Keeping the same posture in front of the computer for a long time takes a toll on children's physical health. Besides, children tend to be addicted to computer games and neglect their study. There is another downside that children may become isolated and less sociable. It is harmful to their mental health.

2. Do you think playing with electronic toys has a good influence on kids?

I can hardly doubt the benefits of electronic toys, but it seems to befit boys than girls. Some car models run when a child pushes certain buttons, or gives out funny sounds. All these can trigger a sense of curiosity and thrill for the players, which later will hone their creativity and imagination abilities.

3. How do you think a child can benefit from playing a child's game?

At first, the joy of playing games is universal because it constitutes a source of entertainment. Children derive great satisfaction in the game by making themselves and others happy. Besides, some games train their intellect and improve their mental and physical health. By playing games, some children develop their special interest, skills, and hobbies. And more importantly, I think children learn group skills by playing games, including cooperation and conflict solution. In games, they follow rules designed by others as well as create their own rules.

4. Which do you think is better, for children to play with toys alone or with other kids?

Each option has its own merits. Playing toys on their own can be a great chance for kids to explore their potential. If they are furious about and enthralled by the toy, they are likely to dig deeper into it to see the mechanism behind it. On the other hand, if they have others in company while playing, teamwork can be built as everyone tries to figure out the solution. Also, they can have a blast together with more laughter.

18. POLITENESS

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER Part 2

Describe an occasion when you must be polite

I'd like to tell a story of my first interview. It was for a white-collar job in an entertainment company. Since it was a formal interview, you know, I prepared carefully and tried to be as professional and polite as I could.

Obviously, a job interview always turns out to be a serious event, despite the efforts of the interviewers to make it more comfortable. So, keeping a respectful attitude and behaving politely are important. Aside from that, the company I applied for was pretty renowned in the entertainment industry, so it just made more sense for me to be as courteous as possible. I mean, the chances of being shortlisted would definitely be higher if I could show my polite attitude, apart from my experience and all sorts of other stuff.

Because it was my first experience of having an interview, I felt so anxious that I couldn't actually sleep the previous night. I didn't want to waste my chance. I ended up oversleeping the next day, but thank God I still arrived on time for the interview. As it was a formal occasion, I put on a white blouse, a black miniskirt, and high heels, like a typical office woman. Despite my fears, the interview ran smoothly. The interviewers were so nice and friendly. They showed no rudeness or arrogance and responded to my greetings in a gentle way. They even made small talk at first, probably to help relieve my nervousness. As a result, I got calmer and answered all the questions confidently. I couldn't have a completely laid-back attitude, and I had to be wary of being too familiar. Still, as the atmosphere got more pleasant, I managed to stop worrying about using formal words and expressions, all that stuff, and focused more on speaking my mind.

It was a relief when the interview ended. A week later, I received an acceptance email from the company and was placed on a probation period. I was extremely happy and I felt like I was floating on air for the rest of the day. That's my experience of being extremely polite on a particular occasion.

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER FOR PART 3

1. Are people more polite with non-family members than they are with their parents?

I can't tell for sure but that's usually the case, especially with some of the youngsters nowadays, they even show more respect to others than their own parents, which seems like an act of hypocrisy to me. Fortunately, those are just minority in the society full of decent people. Sometimes, you may have a feeling that people behave to strangers in more polite manners than their own people, which can be because they don't want to be misunderstood or cast judgment on easily if they act carelessly during their short interaction.

2. Are people today as polite as people were in the past?

Compared to the old times, I believe our ancestors were far more considerate in terms of social etiquettes and customs. Although we still have our set of rules and taboos about how to interact and behave in proper manners, the sophistication of such behaviors has been drastically simplified. For instance, in the past, when greeting someone, particularly the other gender, people used to bend their knees and bow their heads, which has been replaced by a friendly handshake or swift greeting kisses on both cheeks in modern culture.

4. Why is it important to show respect to others?

Being acknowledged and respected is one of the most basic needs of human nature. People want to feel that they matter and so do their opinions, which is why to build and maintain a healthy relationship, you have to show them respect. Respect can be understood simply as politeness. Acknowledge their presence by saying "hello", express your gratitude by saying "thank you" are some of the smallest deeds anybody can do to communicate their appreciation.

5. How do people show politeness in your country?

Just like other parts of the world, we practice some standard manners to show courtesy. When first encounter someone, we do proper introduction as well as handshake to catch each other's name and go on with our conversation. During our exchange, we try to maintain eye-contact and pay undivided attention to the other person to let them now they're being heard. And most importantly, we keep a genuine smile lingering on our faces to make people feel welcomed and relaxed, otherwise, things might get awkward.

6. How do you deal with impolite people?

To my mind, when someone is acting impolitely, it's best that we should remind them of their misbehavior so that they have time to modify it in a timely manner. If they refuse to listen to our constructive advice, we can raise our voice to show our disagreement or even teach them some moral lessons at that moment. Having said this, it would be a nightmare if adults misbehave, in which cases, I guess it would be most reasonable to stay away from them, or ask the favor of older people so as to help them rectify their bad code of conduct.

7. What kinds of behavior are not polite?

I'm of the opinion that it depends on the age groups. As for children or teenagers, disobeying their parents or not listening to constructive advice from surrounding people can be seen as a misbehavior. All I'm saying is that their ego is too big and so reluctant to correct their way of behaving in public places. One instance is that a teenager refuses to refrain from smoking in parks, even if told by adults or older people around. As for the adults, some tend to lack education, and this is hard to expect any polite acts from them. Such people can resort to swearwords, spit in the streets recklessly which often causes a big nuisance to others.

19. BOOK & READING

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER PART 2

Describe an impressive story you heard from other people

Today I'm going to talk about a interesting and inspiring story that I heard from my brother who said he watched a programme on TV a few days ago. It is about a poor student who made it to university with the top marks.

It was when I was feeling down in the dumps and disorientated in my life that my brother told me the story, which gave me a lot of motivation to keep on studying.

Following the plot of the story narrated by my brother, I was deeply touched and felt a sense of admiration for such a persistent boy. Although he was born into an impoverished family, and had to support his family by selling lottery tickets, he managed to cover his study expenses with the money he earned and finally got into university with flying colors. He was an exemplary role model and a huge source of encouragement for many disadvantaged students.

After the program, I promised with myself to make a more arduous effort in my study. I no longer slack off in my studies, and have been frequenting the library day in day out to acquire more knowledge to better prepare myself for the obstacles ahead. The story truly changed my outlook on life.

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER FOR PART 3

1. What kinds of books that old people like to read?

Since I'm not an elderly person, what I'm going to say is just guesswork but old people are really into books which tell about the daily lives of ordinary citizens or those books which give them the chance to reflect on their life. This is because, they are at an age where spiritual well-being is of more importance, and many old citizens would choose books containing some philosophy or moral lessons to read. The reason I feel this way is they can not only can while away the time, they can also improve their personality and pass the experience they read onto their grandchildren.

2. Are you a good story teller?

Honestly with you, I'm bad at putting my ideas across so I rarely dare tell a story to anybody. To be a good storyteller, you have to be excellent at your language, have a broad knowledge and possess an intriguing voice as well. Those are the qualities I lack so you see; I am hopeless at describing something to others.

3. How do you think people will read in the future? = Does reading books become a less common activity because of ebooks?

I strongly disagree with this view. Although the arrival of the internet gives us a wide many options when it comes to reading activity, like we can read ebooks on our laptop or Ipad, nothing can compare to the experience of holding a book in your own hands, and read it from cover to cover. Another point is that you can jump to the page you want to read by turning your fingers and browsing for the desired contents with your eyes, which is much more convenient and user-friendly than having to use a computer screen or a mouse to do the job.

20. CULTURE

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER PART 2

Describe a foreign culture that you are interested in.

I have spent most of my time learning new culture, but I did have an interesting experience about a year and a half ago that inspired me to learn about Costa Rican culture.

One of my friends spent a semester abroad in Costa Rica in early 2005, and I spent two weeks at the beginning of the summer visiting him there before visiting, I knew almost nothing about the culture, but staying there, even for such a short time, really opened my eyes. Costa Rican culture is extremely different from other cultures. Two of the phrases most often used in Costa Rica are a good illustration of their culture: Pura vida and Tranquilo. Pura vida translates as "pure life" and Tranquilo means "calm". Both are used in situations where the level of stress is rising. When Costa Ricans say this phrase, they are telling themselves or others "Don't worry. Chill out." It's an extremely laid-back, relaxed culture. Their main goal in life is to be happy. Workdays tend to be shorter, and since the country is so small and borders both the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans, it is really easy to go to the beach, so many do just that. When I was there, it was routine to see people getting up around 6 am, go to the beach and surf for two or three hours, work from 10-4, go home and eat, then go back to the beach.

It was great to see a culture with such a different outlook on life.

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER Part 3

Learning about Other Cultures

1. Do you think it's important to know about other cultures?

I do think it's extremely important to learn about other cultures. Not only can you find out interesting things, but it makes it easier to interact with those people if you ever come in contact them. Also, it makes it a lot easier to do business with those cultures. It's important to be educated about the world and not just shut yourself into your own country.

2. How can we benefit from learning about other cultures?

Several ways that people can benefit from other cultures are in business, personal relationships, and just in self-improvement. In business, it is necessary to know a little bit about whatever culture you plan to work with. For instance, I think in Muslim cultures, shaking hands with your left hand is considered extremely rude. If you didn't know that, it could hurt your chances of doing business. Also, it's important just to improve yourself by learning as much as you can, and culture is a good subject.

3. What do you think is the best way to learn about another culture?

Obviously, the best way to learn about a culture is to go there and experience it. If you can get a feel for the culture firsthand, it will be a lot easier to pick things up, But I also believe that you can learn a ton about other cultures just by reading books about them. Reading about people's experiences in foreign lands is the next best thing to being there.

4. Do you think that learning foreign languages can help us understand foreign cultures?

I'm not sure that just learning the language is a good way to learn about a culture, but most places where you would learn a language would help you learn about the culture, so indirectly, yes. The language alone isn't great for understanding culture. For instance, German is a really harsh language, but Germans aren't harsh people. You really need to study more than the language if you want to get to know a culture.

5. Do you think it's better to go overseas to study a foreign language or to study it in your home country?

I think it is better to study a language in its native country. When you do that, you are engulfed in the language and forced to encounter it outside of the classroom. Otherwise, your only exposure to the language is when you're studying or in the classroom. I know firsthand that when learning a foreign language in your home country, it is easy to lose what you have learned.

Globalization

6. What is your understanding of the term "globalization"?

Globalization, in my mind, is the idea that the world is becoming smaller, so societies can interact and exchange culture more easily and more efficiently. Unfortunately, because some countries are richer and have more influence than others, certain cultures get spread around more than others. On the whole, however, globalization is a good thing because it is not only culture that gets spread, but things like information and medicine that can help people.

7. Do you think globalization is a good thing?

Yes, globalization has its problems, but for the most part, it is good for most people involved. Some people have different opinions because they are really concerned with the loss of culture, but for me, the benefits outweigh the drawbacks. People have access to more information, so diseases can be better treated, food can be made more efficiently, and goods that make people's lives easier are now available.

8. Do you think it's easier to learn about other cultures today than it was before?

Yes, of course it is. All you have to do is to look at art from long ago about foreign cultures and you can see the lack of knowledge people had. Today, with the Internet and the number of books available, it is almost impossible to be ignorant. It is so easy to learn about anything you want.

21. FAMILY

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER PART 2

Describe someone who is a good parent/ Describe a good parent you know

Ok right then, if I had to think of one, the parent I'd like to talk about is the mother of a good friend of mine, and the reason for choosing to talk about her is that my friend is always going on about how lucky he is to have such a nice mum. And from what I know about her, I'd say he's absolutely right.

Anyway, as for how I know her, well it's basically because I went to the same middle school as her son. And because we became pretty good friends, we ended up seeing quite a lot of each other's parents, especially during the holidays when we often went over to each other's homes.

And regarding what his mother looks like, well interestingly enough, she actually looks pretty similar to my own mother, because they both have quite round faces and long wavy hair. Having said that, I've noticed that my friend's mother often ties her hair up in a bun whereas my mother usually always keeps it down. And another thing to mention would be that whenever I see her, she always seems to be wearing red clothes, which I guess is probably because red suits her quite well.

But anyway, finally then, with regard to why I think she's a good parent, well I'd say there are quite a few reasons, one of which would be that she's always been very supportive to her son. And just to give you an example, when he wondered what major to study at university, he ended up choosing music. And his mother gave him her full support, which is probably not what many other parents would have done, as music doesn't really leave open a lot of career choices.

And I think it's fair to say that nowadays, a lot of parents persuade their children to do things which they think are best for them, but my friend has said that his parents have never been like this with him, especially his mother. So I kind of get the impression that she's never forced him to do anything against his will, and has always let him make his own decisions, which I think's really great.

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER FOR PART 3

1. In a typical family, who plays the leading role?

Well, the stereotype is that the father is the breadwinner of the family, the person who makes the decisions and takes responsibility for the whole family. This can be understandable because the father tends to occupy high positions in society while the mother tends to be housewife or only gets involved in some trivial work like cleaning or babysitting. However, this is not really the case in modern society where freedom and equality is being put a higher emphasis on. Women are as successful as men and are no longer in charge of the monotonous household chores like they were in the past.

2. In your country, what kinds of family members usually live together?

Well, as far as I know, despite the increasing popularity of nuclear families, extended ones still exist in our society. Usually both parents and one, two or three kids would live together under the same roof. In other cases, a grandmother or grandmother joins them to take care of the small kids while parents are away for work, for example. Other less common situations are many generations reside in the same house, usually a multi-story house. Families like these often consist of an uncle, aunt, and their families and so on. Typically, many problems occur when a great many members are in a similar place.

3. Do young and middle-age people live with old people?

Frankly speaking, unlike in Western countries where it is common to send older grandparents to nursing homes, most people are bound by their duty, which means that they should or, in another sense, have to pay back what their parents have given them. As a consequence, the young generations and middle-aged people tend to share the same house with older people. This can be beneficial since small children can receive special care from their grandparents, obtain invaluable hands-on experience and tend to develop a good code of conduct later on.

4. What would children do to make their parents proud?

I guess kids can have good performances at school and behave well to their teachers and the elders. Parents usually take a great pride in their kids if their children get a good score at school, or when others tell them that their kids are nice people. As well as this, I deem it a necessity if children help their parents out with mundane tasks around the house like sweeping the floor, or washing the dishes.

5. Should teenagers have freedom?

Honestly, they should be given freedom to a certain extent. At this that age, most teenagers can go through a lot of changes as they grow up and they're can be particularly rebellious toward their parents. Given this, parents should allow them to do what really interests them rather than forcing them to follow certain rules. Having said this, the role of parents is to monitor and advise their children to be on the right path, stepping in when necessary if their child makes mistakes or does something unacceptable.

6. Do you like to spend time on your own or with your family/friends?

I would love to hang out with my families more. As my parents are always tied up at work we can hardly manage time for one another. So, we often try our best to spend time by having a dinner together at some restaurants at the weekend or see a movie together if time permits. For me, it's much better to build a close family and strengthen our bonds.

7. What are parents' responsibilities for their children?

Basically, parents are responsible for keeping their children safe and raising them. Obviously, it includes a lot of things, such as feeding them, comforting them and looking after them in different situations. They need to make sure that their children have everything they need and are well looked after, have opportunities to learn, grow, and become responsible people.

8. What's the influence of parents on their children?

For one thing, parents' behavior influence their children greatly. If parents are polite, generous and kind, their children tend to be like this. Besides, parents can also influence their children when it comes to important decisions. I think good parents should help their children make better decisions and offer them useful guidance. What's more, parents' attitudes to work, marriage and life can also influence their children. The children may lose confidence in love and marriage if their parents often quarrel.

22. EDUCATION

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER PART 2

Topic: Describe a course you would like to study (or, do).

Digital technology has reshaped the world in more than one way during the last decade. As a result, a new way of living and working has also prevailed among people, especially Millennials. If you've heard about "digital nomad" – a work-from-anywhere kind of employee, you already know how a specific digital skillset can improve and simplify your life, which is why I take great interest in and set Photoshop – one of the most powerful graphic design tool to be my next challenge to conquer.

Being known as an incredible image editing program, Photoshop has earned its reputation for good reasons. Created and maintained by Adobe, Photoshop provides users with a complete and advanced tool set to maximize their creativity. It can do anything regarding online media, for example, creating 3D images, resizing, color correction and even editing video. Fancy as it sounds, to acquire Photoshop skill would be a painstaking process. Due to complex features and even more complex applications, Photoshop is not for those without patience and constant practice. Also, the program usually gets updated with more usages, so, you would have to keep learning to avoid being obsolete.

Graphic design is a critical skill in this digital era which affords anyone flexibility as well as attractive income. So, it would definitely be on top of my must-learn skill in the near future. Actually, I have already schedule my timetable and squeeze in some hours for Photoshop 101 course for next month and I hope it would go as well as it could be.

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER part 3

1. Should schools teach both arts and science?

Arts and science play equal roles in human development, so, I don't see no reason that schools shouldn't include both in their teaching curriculum. While science provides interesting facts and implications of how it improves our life through the arrival of technology and hundreds of other inventions, arts deliver mental messages and benefits to our better understanding of how people entertained in the past and reflect the spiritual lives of our ancestors. Both offer us insights to fully consider human beings and the environment around as they truly are, giving us the best of both world.

2. What kinds of courses are useful for university students?

Courses in university should be practical and constantly updated in terms of knowledge and teaching approach to provide students with applicable skills and hands-on experience in preparation for work life. Lots of graduates are lacking certain kinds of skills to advance in their career path such as communication, problem solving, time management and analytical thinking. For that reason, it is worth considering making these skills an official course for university students to be well-prepared before entering real working environment.

3. Why do some students dislike studying at school?

I think it came as no surprise that some students don't enjoy going to school. This can be explained by the fact that lots of students are being bullied at school by their peers and too afraid to speak up, which only has detrimental effects on their physical and mental health. Another possibility might be the heavy workload students have to deal with every night. Teachers tend to assign more homework than they used to, so, kids feel more pressure and depressed that they would be grounded or get detention unless they finish them all.

4. What school activities are good for schoolchildren?

As children are hyperactive and at the age of exploration and discovery, it would be best to have them engaged in outdoor and social activities rather than in-class ones only. One of the most common extracurricular activities is camping or picnicking, which helps boost up kids' engagement with their classmates, raise awareness about environment issue as well as introduce them to the world outside the four walls. Also, school trips to local museums and zoos can contribute significantly to their general knowledge with hands-on experience instead of theories, exclusively.

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER PART 3 - 2

Q: Is higher education too expensive in your country?

A: I think that it is very costly to go into higher education in my country. They recently hiked the prices up, making it extremely difficult for most people to afford it. On the one hand, spending thousands on an education is worth every penny, but on the other hand, it can bring years of debt to a student and their family. In today's society, no one is guaranteed to get a good job straight after university, so these course fee debts often continue to follow people around for life.

Q: Should all students pay for their university education?

A: In my view, many students should be entitled to have a free higher education, especially if they can't afford the fees but have consistent high grades. For those who are high achievers getting a paid tuition to the university of their choice could be life-changing. For example in many countries in Europe, they offer free higher education to those who obtain high grades in high school, which encourages them to develop their learning and progress into a good profession.

Q: What advantages do universities bring to society?

A: I think that there are many positive things that universities can offer the communities around them. They bring students into the area for one, which means housing will be in demand. They will spend money on food, go out and books for their course, making the town or city a buzzing hub of student life. For students they benefit from having a high level of education, which can then be translated into skills in the workplace, keeping society going with their knowledge.

Q: Which is more important, research or teaching?

A: I think that for those who prefer to research, they enter programmes for further education, like completing a Master's degree or a PhD. This can develop a further understanding of a subject and allow the person to develop their research skills. Many people who complete these higher levels of education, also teach as a way of sharing their knowledge and gaining respect from their peers. You can't really teach at that level without undertaking some sort of extensive research, so I see them of equal importance.

Q: How should students spend their summer vacations?

A: I think that students should spend some time relaxing during the summer break but should also continue to study and read. A better way to make use of all of that time off is to get an internship or other work experience that will be useful for their CV. They could also have a paid part-time job so that they can save money for the forthcoming school year. When completing a degree, it is really useful to gain experience from internships, save money and continue to study. Making the most of all of that free time is important. Being idle during that time period is not really going to help them to go anywhere in the future.

23. FOOD & EATING

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER PART 2

Describe a special meal you have had

The most special meal I've ever had in my life was on my Dad's birthday last year, which was prepared by all of my family members.

The idea was put forward by my sister. We planned to surprise him and prepare his favorite foods. On that day, my Mom cooked Pho, a Vietnamese beef noodles, while I baked a birthday cake for him. My siblings were in charge of decoration and music. Everything had been done properly a little bit earlier before he came home. When he opened the door, he was astonished because of seeing a colorful "Happy birthday Daddy" banner sticked on the wall in the living room. Standing in front, my mom gave him a bouquet of red roses, his favorite flowers. We enjoyed the food and shared our best memories with my Dad.

After washing dishes, we gathered together in the living room. My Dad made a wish and blew candles. He said in tears that he was over the moon and he was proud of us, his home and his family. We gave each other great hugs before going to sleep.

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER FOR PART 3

1. Describe what you think is a healthy diet.

Developing healthy eating habit isn't as confusing or as restrictive as many people imagine. Personally, a healthy diet is the one which combines enough nutrients for one's life. So, consuming a variety of foods is very important because eating a wide assortment of foods helps ensure that you get all of the nutrients, especially the disease-fighting potential that foods offer.

2. Are there many vegetarians in your country?

Yes, they are. The number of people following vegetarianism has been increasing recently. It is thought that old people or those following a religious, like Buddhism, will be vegetarians; however, youngsters also join to vegetarian community because of many reasons.

3. Why do you think some people choose to be vegetarians?

People become vegetarians for many reasons, including health, religious convictions, concerns about animal welfare or the use of antibiotics and hormones in livestock, or a desire to eat in a way that avoids excessive use of environmental resources. Some people follow a largely vegetarian diet because they can't afford to eat meat. Vegetarianism has become more appealing and accessible, thanks to the year-round availability of fresh produce, more vegetarian dining options, and the growing culinary influence of cultures with largely plant-based diets.

4. Is the food that people eat today in your country different to the food that people used to eat in the past? (if yes, in what ways has it changed?)

Personally, eating style of most people has been changed recently. Significantly, food hygiene is mentioned everyday in news. So, people are very cautious when they choose ingredients in reliable market/supermarket and cook properly. Those fat-free or low-fat food and veggies are more preferred in daily meal compared to in the past, choosing food were mostly based on interests.

5. How do you think the way we eat will change in the future?

Yes, I do. I think people nowadays pay more attention to healthy foods because the awareness of health has been raised among young and old people. So, it will be a remarkable innovation in food consuming in the future.

6. Is American-style ‘fast food' popular in your country? (Why? Popular with whom?)

Due to the trend of globalization, fast foods have become more and more popular such as KFC, Lotteria, Burger King or Domino. Why are those brands popular in our country? The first cause is needs of modern community which have intensive activities. In a family, both husband and wife have a tendency to have a job. So, they don't have enough time to cook and the frequency of eating out increases. Second, efforts of fast food restaurant companies to enhance the nutritional quality of their products and services are also the cause of their popularity.

7. What do you think of this popularity- is it as good thing?

The popularity of fast food restaurants has certainly influenced some of the changes in the community. It brings benefits to this busy life with its quick service and convenience place. Other than that, the increasing number of customers that come to restaurants became the reason for greater number of restaurant staff to be needed and the demand for restaurant personnel made it possible for more people to consider work in a restaurant as an attractive option. That said, there are many more entry level job opportunities for people.

8. More and more people are becoming overweight nowadays. What do you think might be the causes of this?

One major consequence of eating fast food every day is excess calorie consumption. Most fast food contains calories from refined sugar and fats. It is also high in sodium from salt and other additives which can lead to people to eat more of it. Consuming more calories than the body needs leads to obesity which causes some health problems such as hypertension, diabetes, heart disease and even cancer.

24. FREE TIME & HOBBIES

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER Part 1

1. Do you work? Or are you a student?

Well, I'm a senior at LongBeach University. My major is Linguistics and I am about to graduate this January.

2. What is your major about?

As you can tell from its name, it's about teaching English for students of all ages. It supplies me with knowledge about teaching methodology, how to prepare syllabus and deal with class situations. It's very interesting major for me.

3. Do you enjoy your major?

Yes, absolutely. Teaching has always been my favorite job as I can pass knowledge to everyone. One of the perks of the job is that I can earn respect from others though sometimes this job is really stressful.

4. Is there anything you don't like about your major?

Well, I think that my major sometimes is boring as the same lesson repeated over and over. I don't have many chances to have practical experience as I learn theories most of the time.

5. What do you don't like about being a teacher?

As I said before, being a teacher is pretty stressful as I have to stay on top of everything. For instance, controlling the class and finding suitable teaching methodology for weak students. Besides, giving marks for tests takes lots of time so I hardly have time to take a break.

6. What kind of jobs get very high salaries in your country?

I think that the more challenging the job is, the higher the salary people get. Doctors or engineers are one of the well-paid jobs as they require many years of experience and qualification.

7. Will you do the same job in the future?

Being an English teacher is a dream for me. It's rewarding and challenging job so I won't change my decision.

8. What's your favorite color?

I'm a big fan of vivid colors, especially red or white. They bring a sense of warm and I look good in those colors.

9. Are there any colours that have a special meaning in your country?

Well, red and yellow are national colors. They appear everywhere, on the national flag, clothes and people often decorate their house in yellow.

10. Are there any colours you dislike? [Why?]

I have to say that I don't like black. It doesn't suit my skin tone and black feels depressing so it's my least favorite color.

11. Do you think colours are important?

I think that colors are important in our daily lives. Without them, everyday would be tedious and dreary. They beautify walls and streets with vivid colors and lift our mood on bad days.

12. Why do some people like dark colors?

I think there are some reasons. It makes them look mysterious so people can hide their true emotions like insecurity. Besides, people who are a bit overweight often wear dark colors to hide their weight and look thinner.

13. When you are buying something, is the colour important to you?

Yes, it is. If the color suits me, it makes me look better and vice versa. So whenever I buy clothes, color is my first consideration.

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER Part 2

Describe an interesting or unusual thing you did in your spare time

I'd like to talk about a sport that I've (1) taken up lately. I've just started going cycling a few weeks ago when my motorbike suddenly broke down. My office is not so far from my house so I decided to ride to work and do exercise at the same time. It started (2) growing on me so now I go cycling for fun. I often spend time in early mornings to ride around the Sword lake. The weather is so pleasant and there isn't as much traffic as in the afternoon so it's perfect time to (3) unwind. I often ride alone but I (4) signed up for this cycling club where everyone (4) share the passion for riding. I (5) get on well with some members so we get together in the mornings, ride around the lake and the old quarter then stop by (6) eatery to have light breakfast. Cycling not only (7) makes my day but also (8) widens my circle of friends. Though youngsters aren't interested in this sport as they have interest in other things like games or social networks, I personally think that it is the best way to (9) keep fit and (10) be as fit as a fiddle.

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER Part 3

1. How do people in your country spend free time?

Well, I think it depends on personality. People who are active are likely to hang out and spend more time outdoor. They may join in some clubs, make new friends or involve in some social activities to amuse themselves. On the other hand, introvert people tend to idle away the hours staying indoor and spending quality time with their families.

2. Is there any difference in spending free time now with the past?

Yes, it seems to me that cutting-edge technology has great impact on how people spend their free time. While youngsters in the past spent more time outdoor to play some traditional games, youngsters today play video games or surf the internet, that's why free-time activities today make people less active and creative than they used to be.

3. Does this change bring any advantage?

Personally, this modification has certain benefits. Browsing the internet allows people to update latest news freely and conveniently. That's a good way to be in touch with the world. Besides, playing video games isn't only good for mental but also physical health. It helps reducing stress, depression and boosts the mood. Interactive games are fast-paced so players have to pay fully attention or else they'll lose. That's why players are likely to focus and have better motor skills than normal person.

4. How does finance affect the way people spend free time?

I see finance has deep impact on spending in spare time. While affluent people tend to spend their time playing golf or chilling out at spas, people having low income are likely to spend time at home, watch a movie. The more money we have, the more money we spend so that's why free-time activities vary according to finance.

5. Is it important to have a hobby? / Why is it important for people to have free-time activities?

I personally believe that hobby is a remedy for fatigue. Since you choose that activity, it will always give you pleasure and help you to unwind. Even if you indulge in your hobby for a short period of time, you still can feel the difference in your energy level and spirit. While you pursue a hobby, you may discover that you have a talent for something unusual as well which you don't know about so far. One more thing is that it also a chance to meet amazing people of similar taste when you join in any club.

6. Is it harmful to spend too much time on a hobby?

Yes, I do agree to a certain extent. While having a hobby allows people to unwind after stressful days, overindulging in anything could do more harm than good. Lots of people spend too much time playing games or going to parities without realizing that they are wasting precious time. For instance, a student who spends long hours playing games may have poor academic performance at school. So people should balance between their life and hobby.

7. What free-time activities would you like to try in the future?

I suppose it depends on my mood. If I feel energetic, I'd like to have a crack at exciting sports like football to be more flexible and get into shape. On the other hand, I'd like to take up some instrumental music. I find it very relaxing and interesting to play some piece of music when I feel sad.

25. FRIENDS

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER Part 2

Describe a time you spend with your friend in your childhood / Describe a childhood friend of yours

Luckily, I had a happy childhood, free from study burdens that many children today are facing up to. Off the top of my head, I would describe a time that my soul mate and I used to hang out frequently at a rural spot near our house, which I guess was at least 15 years ago.

At that time, industrialization and modernization are the terms that no one heard of. Paddy fields cover a big area, and there were meadows, streams, ponds and lakes, giving quite an idyllic and peaceful atmosphere. I and my friend, who is my next-door neighbor and have known each other since we were knee high to a grasshopper, often played together at this rural area.

The reasons I describe this time is because it helps me reminisce of my past when I had the total freedom to explore and enjoy life to the fullest. Catching crickets at dawn, going fishing in the early afternoon, swimming in the crystal clear water and other activities did fill me with great excitement. Especially, hanging out together with my best buddy was just an out-of-this-world experience; we had the time to confide in each other our secrets and ambitions share ups and downs in life together.

My friend's now residing in the US, so I really miss him. We still keep in touch often and are still proud of our happy childhood.

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER FOR PART 3

1. Are you still in touch with your childhood friends?

Not many of them really, we launched on our own paths ever since we left primary school. And actually, I can't recall the face or the names of my classmates in grade 4 or 5, if I happen to bump into them, they would just look as strangers to me. Having said this, I still keep some close contacts ever since, and such friends have become my soul mate. Honestly, I couldn't think of how miserable life would be if living without such friends.

2. Why some people lose contact their childhood friends?

As for my generation, at the time we didn't have any smartphone to keep contacts, so it's easy to lose precious relationships. In contrast, today we can snap some photos, add friends on facebook, to name but a few, which is hugely helpful to the maintenance of personal contacts. Another reason can be that there are some friends we often don't get along well, and there's no point in keeping such contacts. At the end of the day, it's quite a matter of taste and preference in friend selection that really counts.

3. Who is more important to you, friends or family?

In the deepest part of my heart, I think family matters more to me, although sometimes I may spend more time with my friends. You know, we can only be born once by our parents, but we can make new friends all the time. Besides, in this benefit-oriented society, only parents truly love us. So, family should carry more weight.

4. Do you have any foreign friends?

I have a foreign friend whose name is Martina. She comes from America and studies in the same college with me. We met accidentally. She was lost on the way to the language center and I happened to be there. Martina is not a complete beauty, but she is always confident and optimistic, which makes her very attractive. She has bright eyes full of wisdom and curiosity but the bad thing about her is that she's got a quick temper.

5. How do people in your country make friends these days?

Well honestly, I would say that people have many different ways to get to know one another. The most common place is at the coffee shop where people of different ages would gather together and share their own stories about themselves. The second way is via Social networking websites like Facebook or Twitter. Needless to say, many teenagers today would log on the web and join some chat groups, which I reckon is quite useful but may have some potential risks.

6. Do you trust friends that you meet on the internet?

When it comes to friends on the virtual networks, I am pretty cautious. Although, social networking websites like Facebook or Twitter are wonderful platforms for people of all ages to get to know one another, most of the time It's not reliable to lend your trust to those online friends. This is simply because some guys may treat you nicely and act like your close friends but the reality is that they are trying to con some money out of your pocket. So the point is we should try to be on red filter when making use of the internet in general and social networks in particular.

7. How do you get along with people you don't like?

Well, there is a couple of ways that help when trying to be on good terms with those you don't want to have a talk with. The first method lies in a person himself. It is true that we should open our hearts and make efforts to make others feel at ease. During a conversation, it's better if we feather our confidence and bring up the topic first rather than waiting for others to break the ice. Second, individuals had better find more time to be close to each other and find out what they have in common. For example, after watching a comedy at the movie theater, two people found out that they love this type of film, and then they tried to arrange time to spend more time together. The two people ended up being intimate friends forever.

8. Why is it hard to maintain friendships for some people?

In general, several factors are to blame when it comes to why some people have a hard time getting along with other surrounding people. The first cause usually lies in the person himself. They tend to distance themselves from others and don't have frequent talks and time to spend together. As a particular consequence, less mutual understanding is established and the relationship becomes weaker and weaker. Another culprit might be fast-paced lifestyle people suffer from nowadays. After a stressful day at the workplace, it is not uncommon to see many lose their temper or just want to stay home to let their hair down. This makes people spend time on their own, which means less time is spent on others.

9. Would you only make friends with people who are similar to you? Do you like to be friends with someone who is different from you?

Yes, certainly. It is no doubt that we can make incredible headway in our relationships if we socialize with those we have at least something in common. We may share some interests in or passion for movies or books. This is probably because we can easily bring up conversations and keep the talks going when we have shared hobbies. Otherwise, both friends would remain silent all the time, which means less mutual understanding is established. Such a relationship is not going to last long, I reckon.

10. Do you like to have many friends?

Yes, of course. I'm an extrovert and would love to hang out with a group of friends instead of a few close friends. This is simply because I can become more independent and mature if I'm able to mix with people of different backgrounds, learn their life experiences. It is not wrong to say the bigger your social circle is, the more opportunities in life you can have. Some of your friends may help you find a decent job or lend you a hand sometime in the not-so-distant future.

11. Do you think it is possible to be friends with someone if you never meet them in person? = Why Is it easier to make friends on the internet than in reality?

This is advanced age and many of our real life tasks are done virtually by using few mouse clicks. To be a friend, one doesn't need to be physically present with the others to make a friendship. Using different social communication platforms, we could easily make friendship with the other people living at different parts of the world. They don't need to meet every day in person to share their feelings and emotions. Rather, they are communicating easily using the social communication platform features like chatting or messaging, sharing their pictures etc. As a result, the necessity of meeting in person physically every day or after a specific period appears to become less and less.

26. PLAN

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER FOR PART 2

Describe a future plan which is not related to work or study

You may or may not notice but we have run across at least one or two articles illustrating how people should live their lives to the fullest every single day. Reading those sharing has struck me hard that I haven't tried doing something worth risking or adventurous enough in my life, which will somehow leave a regretful feeling to my older self when years come by. And that's why I have scratched my original plan to settle down first to make time for traveling for at least 3 months within the next 2 years.

It may sound far-fetched to give up your usual lifestyle and stable income to commit for long-term retreat which holds no guarantee to be beneficial for your next job, however, life is not always about the results but the experience. It will take serious time and effort to carefully prepare for the journey unless you want to let the grass grow under your feet. Fortunately, I am that type of person; so, I have already sketched a plan. The first thing crossing my mind when thinking about travelling is money, which is also the most crucial tool in any situation. Saving up to the amount that can cover at least all my basic needs is the goal. Besides, it's nearly impossible to truly discover local cultures without understanding them and languages can break any boundary. So, based on the list of countries I would love to visit, I will try to learn a little about their languages as well as look into their cultures and customs to be able to communicate more efficiently and avoid taboos that visitors usually make. Emerging yourself in an entirely different nature and people will definitely change how you perceive the world and cultivate your appreciation with everything offered.

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER FOR PART 3

1. Which do you prefer? Having plans or having no plans?

I have inclination for becoming organized and prepared for upcoming challenges. Drawing up a plan in advance can equip people with some knowledge when something unexpected comes up, or when everything just doesn't go according to plan. Without a plan, people can feel at a loss and have nothing to fall back on when they are in the face of adversity. However, it should be pointed out that we shouldn't get into too much detail, instead, just getting the picture as to what's gonna happen and how plan can be developed is enough for us to tackle it. I mean that plan there are a lot of external circumstances which preclude our detailed plan from coming true; as a result, there is no need to be too precise.

2. In general, do you think planning is important?

Honestly, I am a great planner and can hardly stick to my original plan. Yet, that's what planning is all about. They say "plan to fail and fail to plan" for a reason. Even though I usually end up ruining my schedule, I make a habit of noting my thoughts and what I have to do the next day, next week and next month since I think it's one of the best way to organize my mind and my life as well. Without a plan, even a generic one, you're just going around without making any progress towards your goals and advance in your career. So, making sure to keep track of my schedule and personal goals through planning is my top priority.

3. Why do people make plans?

Some believe planning is not for everyone since many wants to live spontaneously without thinking too much but others have different opinions. People are into planning since many benefits it may bring. Planning helps you clarify your goals, strategize your tactics and stay on track. Even if sometimes you mess it all up, you will eventually get back to your ultimate destination. Without a plan, you are simply lost in a maze of inconsequential decisions.

27. HISTORY

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER 1

Part 1

Do you like to learn about history?

Wow, I am into reading history, not only of our country, Vietnam but also other countries in the world. History is not only a subject to me, it is also a source of invaluable information about our origin as well as the victorious past of our ancestors.

Part 2

Describe a historical event that you like the most. (Mô tả một sự kiện lịch sử mà bạn thích nhất)

Honestly, every time I am asked about history, I am always eager to talk about Vietnam war, which ends in 1975 and one of the historical highlights of our country. Vietnam undergone hundreds of years under the colonization of foreign invaders and this is the last war before a new era of peace and independence is opened for us.

It is an unforgettable period of history for some reasons. First, it is the courageous fighting spirit of Vietnamese people. Our country was divided into Northern part and Southern part. Communication was almost impossible at that time and people across the country were living in poverty and destitute conditions. However, our soldiers still fought bravely with the support from ordinary people.

Second, this is remarkable because hardly anyone could think that we could win the war. When compared to such a well-armed country like America, it was hard to think that we could defeat them. However, with the determination of the whole nation, we have our own peace. April 30th, 1975 was the date that we gained independence from the invaders and from then on, we have held annual celebration to pay tribute to those who sacrificed for the country. I hope that Vietnamese people will never forget this important event of the nation.

Part 3

What can we learn from the events in history?

I think we can have many lessons from historical events. For example, if we read about the Great Depression in America from 1929 to 1933, we can know more about the economy and crisis in certain periods. In other cases, if we study war, there will be knowledge related to domination or weapons. However, above all, the most important lesson is that each historical event is either a mistake or a pride, we should look at them carefully to improve our strengths, to maintain the pride and not to let the mistakes occur again.

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER 2

Part 1

How did you learn history when you were young?

Actually, when I was a child, I only learned history through a text book but at that time I was not so interested in it because there were so many things that I had to remember. Then my grandfather took me to a bookstore to buy books in history and I have been interested in historical figures such as King Le Loi or Heroine Vo Thi Sau.

Part 2

Describe a historical figure that you find the most impressive. (Mô tả một nhân vật lịch sử bạn thấy ấn tượng nhất)

If someone asks me about one historical figure that I like the most, it will definitely be President Ho Chi Minh. I am sure that President Ho is admired and loved not only by Vietnamese people but also residents in other countries around the world. He is a prominent leader and he led many resistances that defeated foreign invaders to bring peace and protect national sovereignty. President Ho is well known for leading a simple life and spending all his life fighting for the happiness of Vietnamese people and the independence of the nation. He was born into an impoverished but intellectual family in Nghe An province so he could understand the misery and poverty that were caused by war to Vietnamese people. So, at a very young age of early twenty, he decided to go to some foreign countries to find a way to save the country. He went through a lot of ups and downs but with his decisiveness and patriotism, he came back to Vietnam with innovative ideas to improve the policies as well as eliminate invaders.

President Ho had achieved a lot in his life of doing politics; however, he never thought for himself only, he helped other people till the end of his life. Now there are many memorials of President Ho in different countries for people to honor one of the greatest men in the world's history.

Part 3

Do you think historical museums should be opened for free?

Well, it is of great importance for people, especially young people to learn history of their own country. Historical museums, where valuable traditions are preserved and these are ideal places for people to cherish the past. I think it's better to reduce the entrance fee to historical museums because they need a certain amount of money to be operated. Local officers should have special offers for those when they come to museums as a way of encouraging people to learn history. Also, it is a good idea that more historical shows TV are produced to make history an important part in people's life.

28. HEALTH

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER Part 1

1. Do you have any unhealthy habits?

Sadly, a big yes. Because I work until 9pm and won't be back until 10 pm, I often stay up late, very late. Besides, I'm also quite busy so I don't usually cook. I eat pre-made meals instead.

2. In what ways do you try to stay healthy?

I love working out at the gym. I do a lot of squat, plank as well as weightlifting. Also, I try to have a balanced diet and often have check-ups with our GP. So, I'm always as fit as a fiddle.

3. What are the health benefits of playing a sport?

I think playing sports benefit us both physically and mentally. When you play sports, you are giving your body time to build muscles, and to burn fat. So, you will be fitter and stronger. Also, you are giving your body time to relax. That's why I enjoy working out so much.

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER Part 2

Describe a time when you were ill.

SP: Well, I've never been seriously ill, but I can remember a couple of weeks ago, I had to take 3 days off because I was under the weather.

I was walking back home from work and it suddenly started to rain cats and dogs, so I got wet. The next day when I woke up, I was a bit off colour. I still remember feeling poorly, even I got a headache, a sore throat, chesty cough, and a blocked nose. I decided to see my GP for a check-up. My GP said that I caught a heavy cold and had to take a lot of medicines. I was in charge of a project presentation at that time, and due to the situation, I had no choice but to phone in sick and reschedule the presentation until this week. But thank God, I was over the worst of it and made a speedy recovery after 3 days suffering.

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER 1

Part 3

1. Do women pay more attention to their health than men?

I believe so. Well, whenever I feel poorly, I will arrange an appointment with my GP for a check-up. But things don't seem to be the same for men. For example, my dad doesn't think he is sick until he is at death's door. Maybe it's because we think that women are more vulnerable than men.

2. Could governments do more to promote healthier lifestyle options?

I think there are still a lot of things that governments can do to encourage healthier lifestyle. People should be both physically and mentally healthy. So, both of the aspects should receive attention equally. For physical health, governments can raise taxes on junk food and invest more in public exercise equipment. For mental health, I believe most of mental problems result from stress. So, governments should come up with ideas to reduce working hours of employees as well as workload of students. Of course, this reduction must be accompanied by an increase in productivity and quality.

3. Do you think most people worry more about their health as they get older?

Obviously, people will pay more attention to their health problems when they go grey. The reason is that when we are older, our immune system will weaken. And as a result, we'll get sick more easily. Besides, the sickness will also affect us more badly.

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER 2

Part 2: Describe an activity you do for your health or fitness.

I'm not a great swimmer in any sense but swimming is like my religion. It is truly refreshing and literally, washes away every disturbing thought I have whenever I dive into cold water. No matter how tight my schedule can get, I usually pay at least one visit to a local swimming pool to work myself up and get rejuvenated.

Sometimes, I have a partner or two, who are also my best friends since high school. We live in the same neighborhood so it's not too stressful when we have to set a schedule for our swimming session. We carpool more often than not and it takes us roughly 15 minutes to get to the local recreation center where it provides the locals with a variety of facilities for training such as gym class, stadium, swimming pool, tennis court and so on, which is extremely convenient for those who practice more than one activity. The only thing better than swimming itself is swimming with your besties, which is one of hundreds of things I love about my weekly ritual. Hardly do we have time to meet each other during week days as we're all up to our neck at work and totally stressed out. So, having such a healthy way to catch up with your friends and recharge your battery after an exhausting week never feels better. Just like any other sport, swimming helps maintain your health, keep you fit as well as build your endurance. However, unlike others, it's a very relaxing and peaceful form of exercise, you don't even sweat for hours – a supreme advantage. So, if you're looking for a kind of sport that brings you comfort and relaxation, swimming should be your first choice.

PART 3

1. What do old people in your country do to keep fit?

Each individual has their own way to keep fit and stay healthy, including senior citizen. In my country, you can easily catch a sight of some elders taking a walk early in the morning in the park or on the pavement along the street. Since they are usually early risers, that's one of the most activities they take part in. Additionally, some old people even join many dancing session for the elders to feel more energetic and livelier.

2. What kinds of sports are popular in your country?

From my observation, football is the most widely practiced sport as well as having most viewers compared with any other sports. Like others, football has its own sets of rules and regulations that players need to comply with in order to perform well and of course, to score. Every football tournament in our country always draw the attention of football lovers and gets broadcasted either on national or local channel, which is extremely convenient for those who can't make it to the stadium.

3. Do you think young people should play dangerous sports?

I believe youngsters should be well aware of their physical and mental capabilities before deciding to take up any new sports since such activities rarely have a hundred guarantee that you will never get injured during practice, especially extreme ones. Bungee jumping, skydiving, hang gliding and so many more are not for everyone and everything needs to be taking into account when participating in these sports. So, if you're up for adventures and well-prepared about what you're up to, go for it, otherwise, you had better look for another hobby.

4. What else people can do to keep fit besides sports?

There are many ways that people can employ to take care of their mind and body in collaboration with sports. First, pay more attention to your daily diet. You are what you eat, so, it's best if people can try to minimize the amount of junk foods they consume and practice healthy diet the sooner the better. Second, don't take sleep for granted. Many young people nowadays won't go to bed before midnight, which has detrimental impacts on your brain and skin in long term. You'll never be fully energized without a decent rest to recharge your battery and let the biological clock does its job. Finally, advanced medicine might be extremely useful in some cases. If you lack some kind of vitamins due to unbalanced diets or you just naturally be, functional foods can help solve the issue but bear in mind that doctors' advice are highly recommended.

5. What do parents do to make their children like sports?

Children loves doing what adults usually do. As a result, set a prime example for your kids to make them like it naturally. If a father enjoys soccer and has a weekly match on every Sunday, bringing his son along seems to be a brilliant idea to pique his interest and nurture his passion for soccer. Next step is to encourage children engage in any kind of sport that intrigues them when they're old enough to go to school. Being in a team not only harnesses their team spirit and responsibility but also helps build character.

29. INTERNET

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER Part 2

Describe a website you like to visit

Well, the website I want to talk about today is www.wikipedia.org. It is a free online encyclopedia that allows its user to edit almost any article. Wikipedia was launched in 2001 and was only in the English language initially, but it quickly developed similar versions in other languages. In general, people can check all kinds of information they want on this website.

I learned about this website when I was in junior school. At that time, the history teacher asked me to make a presentation about cloning. However, the related information on the textbook was kind of limited, so I asked my classmates for advice. They recommended the www.en.Wikipedia.com to me and I found that I could find a lot of useful bilingual information on this website. Since then, I have become a big fan of the Wikipedia. Even till now, I always search for some useful information on this website and I use it almost everyday.

As for how this website helps me, well, I suppose that it is beneficial to my major study. As an university student, I always need to search for some information while preparing for my paper, during which I always need to find the accurate definitions of some proper nouns on this website. In this case, I feel that this website really helps me a lot.

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER Part 3

1) What are some of the different reasons why people use the Internet?

Well, I think there are many reasons. As for students, they need to use the Internet in order to search for some information related to their study. During the spare time, they also use the Internet to watch some TV series and play computer games. As for the white-collars, the Internet plays an essential role in their work. Every day, they will use the Internet to send the e-mails to their colleagues as well as their working partners. Also, they will also use Whatsapp in order to communicate with their friends and families. As for older people, they will also use the Internet in order to make their life colorful. Those people have already retired from the work, so they will use the internet to listen to the music and watch the films during the day time. All in all, I think the Internet is very important in people life.

2) Some people say that different age groups have different tastes on Internet contents. What do you think?

Yes, I think so. As for the young students, they like searching for some entertainment news and gossip about their favorite stars on the Internet. They will also search for some academic information related to their study on the Internet sometimes. As for the white-collars, they prefer to search for some economic news and the national policies which are directly related to their life on the Internet. As for older people, they like searching for some information about how to keep healthy on the internet. In this case, I think different age groups have different tastes on Internet contents.

3) What influences can (or, does) the Internet have on children/teenagers?

Well, Honestly, as an old saying goes that: ‘Every coin has two sides'. I think the Internet has both the good influence as well as the bad influence on children. As for the good influence, the Internet is beneficial to children's study. When children meet with some difficulties on the study, they can type the keywords on the search box on the Internet, and then they can find the useful information within a few seconds. However, as for the bad influence, violence and sex are very popular on the Internet. The children are too young to distinguish the right from wrong, so those unhealthy information on the Internet has a bad influence on children's growth.

4) Do you think parents should control what Internet sites their children visit on the Internet?

Yes, I think so. On the one hand, parents should supervise their children, otherwise children may be addicted to the Internet. Many children like surfing the Internet and playing the computer games, but most of them can't control themselves. So, I think it is parents' obligation to tell children about which website they can search and how long they can use the Internet, in this case, children may not be addicted to the Internet. On the other hand, the violence and sex are very popular on the Internet. If parents don't control what websites their children can visit, children may browse those unhealthy websites or even imitate the contents on the websites, which is really harmful to children's growth. In this case, I believe that parents should control what Internet websites their children can visit.

5) What (kinds of) people don't use the internet?

Well, I think two groups of people don't use the Internet. What I want to mention firstly is middle-aged people. For this group of people, they always need to take care of children and do housework during free time, so they have less time to use the internet for the things they enjoy. The second group of people is older people. Most of them have already retired from work and they may not want to learn new technology. In this case, they don't know how to type the words with the keyboard, how to open a webpage, and so on, so they don't always use the Internet.

6) What are the disadvantages people suffer because they don't use the Internet?

Well, there are many disadvantages, the first thing I'd mention is that it is very difficult for them to keep pace with this time. Here I would like to take the news as an example. For those people who use the Internet, they can know what is happening around the world at any time they want. However, people who don't use the computer can only know about the world news on the next day's newspaper. Second, I think the life of people who don't use the Internet is very inefficient. With the help of the Internet, people can communicate with their friends all over the world whenever and wherever they want, and it only takes people a few seconds to shop online. However, people who don't use the Internet will never enjoy those conveniences.

30. SPORTS - COMPETITION

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER 1

Part 2: Describe an activity you do for your health or fitness.

I'm not a great swimmer in any sense but swimming is like my religion. It is truly refreshing and literally, washes away every disturbing thought I have whenever I dive into cold water. No matter how tight my schedule can get, I usually pay at least one visit to a local swimming pool to work myself up and get rejuvenated.

Sometimes, I have a partner or two, who are also my best friends since high school. We live in the same neighborhood so it's not too stressful when we have to set a schedule for our swimming session. We carpool more often than not and it takes us roughly 15 minutes to get to the local recreation center where it provides the locals with a variety of facilities for training such as gym class, stadium, swimming pool, tennis court and so on, which is extremely convenient for those who practice more than one activity. The only thing better than swimming itself is swimming with your besties, which is one of hundreds of things I love about my weekly ritual. Hardly do we have time to meet each other during week days as we're all up to our neck at work and totally stressed out. So, having such a healthy way to catch up with your friends and recharge your battery after an exhausting week never feels better. Just like any other sport, swimming helps maintain your health, keep you fit as well as build your endurance. However, unlike others, it's a very relaxing and peaceful form of exercise, you don't even sweat for hours – a supreme advantage. So, if you're looking for a kind of sport that brings you comfort and relaxation, swimming should be your first choice.

Part 3

1. What do old people in your country do to keep fit?

Each individual has their own way to keep fit and stay healthy, including senior citizen. In my country, you can easily catch a sight of some elders taking a walk early in the morning in the park or on the pavement along the street. Since they are usually early risers, that's one of the most activities they take part in. Additionally, some old people even join many dancing session for the elders to feel more energetic and livelier.

2. What kinds of sports are popular in your country?

From my observation, football is the most widely practiced sport as well as having most viewers compared with any other sports. Like others, football has its own sets of rules and regulations that players need to comply with in order to perform well and of course, to score. Every football tournament in our country always draw the attention of football lovers and gets broadcasted either on national or local channel, which is extremely convenient for those who can't make it to the stadium.

3. Do you think young people should play dangerous sports?

I believe youngsters should be well aware of their physical and mental capabilities before deciding to take up any new sports since such activities rarely have a hundred guarantee that you will never get injured during practice, especially extreme ones. Bungee jumping, skydiving, hang gliding and so many more are not for everyone and everything needs to be taking into account when participating in these sports. So, if you're up for adventures and well-prepared about what you're up to, go for it, otherwise, you had better look for another hobby.

4. What else people can do to keep fit besides sports?

There are many ways that people can employ to take care of their mind and body in collaboration with sports. First, pay more attention to your daily diet. You are what you eat, so, it's best if people can try to minimize the amount of junk foods they consume and practice healthy diet the sooner the better. Second, don't take sleep for granted. Many young people nowadays won't go to bed before midnight, which has detrimental impacts on your brain and skin in long term. You'll never be fully energized without a decent rest to recharge your battery and let the biological clock does its job. Finally, advanced medicine might be extremely useful in some cases. If you lack some kind of vitamins due to unbalanced diets or you just naturally be, functional foods can help solve the issue but bear in mind that doctors' advice are highly recommended.

5. What do parents do to make their children like sports?

Children loves doing what adults usually do. As a result, set a prime example for your kids to make them like it naturally. If a father enjoys soccer and has a weekly match on every Sunday, bringing his son along seems to be a brilliant idea to pique his interest and nurture his passion for soccer. Next step is to encourage children engage in any kind of sport that intrigues them when they're old enough to go to school. Being in a team not only harnesses their team spirit and responsibility but also helps build character.

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER 2

Part 2

Describe a competition you want to take part in

Today I'm going to share with you about a craft work contest that bunch of school buddies and I want to part in. ABC Festival is approaching and our form teacher has made a decision to hold a small competition among our classmates. The theme is to design the most attractive and meaningful lantern.

My group's plan is to create a spinning lantern instead of choosing much simpler shapes like butterflies, fish and stars. Actually, our idea is to design a lantern which splits around when a candle is placed inside, which symbolizes the seasonal spinning of the earth around the sun. So, it will be a bit tricky and time-consuming to make it work.

We will have to cut the colored plastic papers and draw some exotic pictures to decorate the exterior of the lantern. Then we have to cut them out neatly, glue and stick them onto the shining outer surface of the spinning lantern. We will also have to strategize and position the axis so that it spins properly. All this is to be finished within 3 hours.

This craft competition has a really special meaning for me and my team. It's our opportunity to test our artistic abilities as all of US are going to major in arts later on. If we win this competition, we can prove ourselves to our families so that they would accept our career path later on. I'm really looking forward to the contest and hope that we would achieve the best results.

PART 3

1. What do you think of the current competition program?

To my mind, game shows featuring contests are mushrooming on the media. Their nature is quite questionable to me as most of these competitions are previously scheduled and expected to go according to a certain set plan as to draw the attention of the audience. As a consequence, the results of such contests are not to be trusted and the whole game can be a scheme simply made to trick the vulnerable public.

2. Why competition programs are so popular?

Game shows are all the rage on TVs for the time being. Such programmes tend to be hosted by celebrated comedians to hook viewers and boost ratings! The competition "Challenge the comedians" in which a candidate tries to make the panel of judges laugh out loud with a funny performance or play is considered as a typical programme that registers millions of views on YouTube.

3. Who do you think will take part in the competition?

I think those working in the entertainment industry are often the main and frequent participants in competitions! The reason behind this is that those figures are often muscular, good-looking and easy to like enough to draw the attention of the public. The chances for ordinary people to join a competition are quite slim and if there is any, the competition won't appeal to many people.

4. Do people need competitive spirits at work?

A competitive mind is equivalent to the increase in work productivity simply because when a staff member is motivated and have a sense of rivalry, he will try to outsmart their colleagues by working extra hours, packing his brains to come up with better ideas and get their tasks done in a timely manner. This in turn will make others follow suit and the obvious result is the increased work output.

31. LANGUAGE

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER Part 1

1. Do you like learning languages?

Absolutely, I am always keen on mastering some new languages such as English, French. You know, if I am bilingual or multilingual, I can roam round other parts of the world with great ease and my whole journey will be transformed miraculously.

2. What languages do you speak?

Well, my native language is […..]. I've always wanted to learn Portuguese which is mostly spoken in some parts of the world, but I don't have enough time yet.

3. Do you learn any foreign language?

I'm actually studying two languages at the moment and find it so challenging, yet intriguing that everyone should try at least once. Since English is not my native language, it's the very first foreign language I've attempted to learn because of its widespread use and numerous benefits that come along. It's the most spoken language for non-native speakers around the globe and is one of the most critical criteria companies look for when recruiting an employee, or at least that's a reality in my country.

4. Do you think learning languages is important?

Absolutely. Learning languages, especially English, allows us to be able to communicate with others. It also helps us study more effectively, since we can search for almost everything on the Internet in English.

5. How did you learn the languages that you know?

I think the most effective way to learn a language is to practice more with a native speaker. By doing this, you can improve both listening and oral skills simultaneously, you will be fluent in this language. Besides, I also do general readings in my spare time and keep a journal in English.

6. Can you learn more than one language at a time?

I haven't thought of it, but yes, I am quite confident that I can manage to learn 2 at once. I reckon that the most difficult thing to acquire 2 languages is to manage my time efficiently. So, it's more than worth it to plan out exactly how I am going to divide my time between the two languages I tackle.

7. Do you want to become a foreign language teacher in the future? Why?

That thought has crossed my mind once or twice but I've never visualized myself as a full-time teacher. A part-time job, yes. Professional one, not likely. Being a legitimate teacher in my country requires certain degrees and qualifications to be able to teach and handle different situations in class. In my case, I've never attended any special training on teaching or have any teaching skills; so, I don't have much confidence in handling difficult situations in class. Besides, you have to reach a high level of language ability to make sure that whatever you say is reliable and accurate.

8. Do you think that English is difficult to learn?

I think every single language is difficult to learn, and English is not an exception. I mean, it might be easy to learn grammar and vocabulary, but it takes quite a long time to practice using the language fluently.

9. Do you think foreigner should learn your country's language when they arrive there?

I think it's obviously in their best interest to pick up a few basic words or phrases in a local language. First, it is an interesting experience to try to communicate with the locals in their native language. You may not get the words right, but that's part of the fun. So, people will find you more friendly and easy to talk to because of your efforts and sense of humor. Besides, since language is an important part of any culture, you can develop a better understanding of the culture while studying their very way of communicating.

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER Part 2

Describe the first time you used a foreign language to communicate.

I have been learning English for a long time but I haven't had many chances to practice speaking English, and I hadn't even talked to native speakers. As far as I remember, the first time I used it for communication was on New Year's Eve 2 years ago.

At that time, I was hanging out with my friends, talking about some new year's resolutions when a foreigner suddenly came up to me, asking for the direction to a minimart nearby. Honestly, he had such a strong accent that I couldn't make out what he wanted to say. I had to ask him to repeat several times before understanding what he needed. Then, I showed him the way to the nearest minimart to buy some necessities. Honestly, I was not confident in my English speaking skill, so I had to use body language and gestures such as body language, gesture, etc to make sure he understood everything he was asking about. Fortunately, he could understand what I said, and expressed his simple yet sincere gratitude before heading for the minimart.

That experience strengthened my belief that English plays an important role in our life, even though we don't live in an English speaking country. English is spoken globally, and we have to use it if we want to stay connected to people in another country and search for information. So, I think that I should improve my English so that I can speak this international language confidently so I can talk confidently with foreigners, regardless of the topic of conversation.

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER Part 3

1. What kind of quality should a language teacher have?

Not only a language teacher in particular but educators in other areas should have certain skills and knowledge to successfully inspire and instruct their students. First, of course, deep knowledge and great education matter. It's often said that "a teacher is only as good as his knowledge is". People may not need academic degrees or certificates in other jobs or industries, but in education and training, they are solid proof to verify your professional qualifications. Also, communication skill also plays an essential role. If one is an clear and convincing speaker, he will be able to explain things with better results. Finally, a good sense of humor may be of great help to keep students interested.

Studying a foreign language is not only a hobby but also a trend in modern society due to some undeniable advantages. Speaking more than one language can open up more job opportunities for job seekers, especially if that language is widely used in business. You will be able to work for not only local but global companies as well often with better salaries. Also, being bilingual or multilingual will help meet people from around the world. You can establish strong connections and friendships with people from other cultures with foreign co-workers or local people while traveling. Finally, your brain will benefit greatly from the learning activity itself. Research has shown that studying another language will change the way your brain works.

32. MONEY

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER 1

Part 2

Describe something special that you saved money to buy

Ok then, well firstly I'd just like to mention that I'm quite lucky in the fact that I haven't really had to save up for much in my life, simply because my parents have always bought stuff for me. But one occasion that I did save up to buy something myself was when I got my iPad, so that's what I'd like to talk about.

Well, if I remember correctly, I think it took about four or five months, and I basically did it by cutting back on other things, you know, like eating out and buying clothes. I mean, I don't have a job, unfortunately, so the only money I receive is my living allowance which my parents give me every month, and that's what I had to use to pay for it.

Regarding why I wanted an iPad, I suppose the main reason was that I'm a big Apple fan. You know, I already had an iPhone and laptop, so the only thing I was missing was an iPad. I also watched Steve Jobs' presentation of the iPad when it was launched, and it looked pretty cool. So I just thought it would be great to have one!

And as for how I felt after buying it, well first of all, I was really excited, you know, because I couldn't wait to start using it. And it also felt great because I'd saved up for it myself instead of simply asking my parents to buy it for me. So for that reason, it just felt a bit more special to me, if you know what I mean!

PART 3

1. Why do young people tend to waste money?

Personally speaking, two reasons are to blame for some teenagers' tendency to waste their money. One of the reasons can be peer group pressure. Living in a society where they can come across dozens of ads on the media a day, plus the pressure from their friends at school. For instance, they are likely to purchase a new shirt if it is worn by a famous film star, or when all their friends wear it. As a result, they end up lavishing their money on a lot of things without actually liking the item. The second explanation is that parents are too loose in controlling the spending of the kids. They make a mistake of giving them too much money to spend, and never ask where the money goes.

2. What kinds of things do people like to buy in your country?

Well, it is difficult question as the tastes can vary from person to person. The first and most common item I would particularly like to mention is clothes. Most people, especially the females are shopaholics and are willing to spend their money on extravagant items of garment so it's not hard to see clothing stores are always packed with customers. The second object is the hi-tech devices. As there is a need to text-message or take high-quality pictures when they go out, most teenagers love to purchase the latest smartphone or camera versions to meet their personal needs.

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER 2

Part 1

1. How much money is enough?

Well, it's hard to answer this question as there is no exact measurement to say whether money is enough or not. It's up to (1) perspective and goal of different people. Some people want to earn more money so they can save up but some just need a certain amount of money to (2) sustain their lives.

2. Why do people care too much about money?

I think the reason is simply because money equals power. The more money you have, the more things you can do, the more influence you have over people. No one refuses power so that's why they give priority to money.

3. Is money important to you?

Absolutely. I can buy things with money and give presents for my family by my own money. It makes my life more meaningful. It's like a motivation to (1) push me forward and work harder to enhance my life. For me, money is just never enough and if I'm satisfied with what I earn, I'll (2) fall behind with fellows.

4. What do people in your country save money for?

I suppose it's up to different purposes. While the young save money for travelling or paying tuition fees, older people tend to keep money for health service and their kids. However, young people have more (1) desire than (2) the seniors so they often spend more than their (3) savings.

Part 2

Describe a method to save money.

Well, I'm not good at saving money and I tend to buy things without considering carefully. It's hard to save if you don't know exactly what you are saving for so what I do is to (1) set savings goals to motivate myself in every (2) financial decision that I make. Going to Japan has always been my biggest dream but I've postponed so many times due to lack of money. I tried to keep money myself but I still (3) overspent and was out of money at the end of every month. I asked my mom to keep money for me as she is better at controlling expense. She is like my accountant and helps me to (4) balance the expense. She also gives me advice whenever I go shopping to make sure it doesn't (5) cost me. We have an agreement that whenever I (6) withdraw a sum of money, I have to save double that amount. This (7) works wonders with me as my savings goes up every month. Now I always ask myself whether it's necessary to buy things or I can (8) save for a rainy day. After a while, I realize I've (9) set aside more money everyday. I buy things within my budget and don't waste money for unnecessary things. This method of saving money makes me feel good about myself and I feel financially secured.

IELTS Speaking Part 3

PEOPLE VS MONEY

1. What do you think about money?

Money can do many things, both good and bad. It allows us to have freedom and a wide variety of choices. Money gives us confidence and desire to work harder so we can have better life. You can decide where and how you want to live when you have a good income. When you don't have much money, your choice will be limited. However, everything comes with a price. Having much money doesn't mean people wont run into problems. Most people fail to strike a balance between earning and enjoying money so they work day and night. They believe they'll be happier if they have lots of money. However, for most people, such time never comes and they die unhappy and dissatisfied.

2. Could human beings live without money?

It's true that money isn't the most important thing in this world but it's irreplaceable in our lives. If the world were a completely free place with no expenses and people could own anything they want without money, they would no longer go to work. There would be nothing as motivation and people would work unproductively. Money stimulates people to overcome obstacles so they can enjoy their achievements to the fullest. Besides, people who have money have their own voice in society and it's a strong encouragement for anyone.

3. In your opinion, why do many people derive pleasure from spending money?

Spending money is definitely the most satisfying feeling ever. People can buy things they've long waited for to please themselves. Buying something new will make their day and stimulates them to work harder. The money spent isn't necessarily on oneself but also loved ones. It makes us feel good so we will spend more money the next time.

4. Who do you think save more money, men or women?

Well, it's hard to say. Men's biggest risk is their egos. They need to brag about their possessions and how much money they've earned, so they end up spending more money. Women tend to save money and spend it when they really need it. However, there are still exceptions when women manage money worse than men. That's why there is no strong proof to show men or women save more money.

5. Which do you think is better for the economy of a country or area, people saving money or people spending money?

It's such a tricky question. I guess for any economy, saving is entwined with spending. When people buy things, they will contribute a sum of money to the stores so they can pay salaries. The government also benefit from that as it'll gain tax. If people save money, only the banks have advantage so they can invest or set up new businesses. An ideal economy is when saving and spending balanced. It's a rule for any economy in the world.

6. Do you think the government should let people know how it spends money?

Well, actually, I don't really care about this issue. I think the government has its own reason to not publicize everything. It can be state secrets so the authority wants to keep it private. However, If the government could go public with the amount of money it spends, it would gain trust from the public and assure them that their money is invested properly.

YOUNG PEOPLE VS MONEY

1. How can (or, how do) young people learn to manage their financial affairs?

Personally, young people should learn from their parents who have lots of experience with spending money. They will give the youngsters good advice to keep an eye on personal expenses. The young should plan short terms and long term financial goals and review them from time to time to manage personal finance well. They need to make sure their budgets cover their savings as well in case of any unforeseen emergency.

2. Do you think it's easy for (young) people to save money?

I think it's all about motivation. When people have specific goals, they'll find saving money easier. For instance, lots of youngsters are working their way through university by doing some part-time jobs. They don't feel like depending on their parents and wanting to have less burden on family. They can save a small sum of money every month. Once young people keep that habit, they can have considerable savings for their future.

3. Do young people nowadays believe in saving money?

Well, I don't really know. It depends on their outlook, I guess. Saving money up is a good idea in case undesirable problems happen. Developing the discipline to do it over a long period of time is what most people find difficult to do. That's why not many young people keep track with their monthly expense.

KIDS AND MONEY

1. Do you think parents should give pocket money to the kids?

I do agree with that. Giving pocket money to children helps them start learning about money management. When children get pocket money, they have to make choices about spending or saving it. If they save up, they have to learn about waiting for things they want. Otherwise, kids who choose to spend are likely to use up all the money. After a few months, they'll know how to spend within their budget. Paying children to do chores also makes them more hard-working. Money doesn't grow on trees so giving pocket money will teach the kids to appreciate it.

2. Do parents in your country think it's important for their children to save money?

Yes, they do. They always encourage the kids to live within their means. They believe if children save money, they will be more appreciate and use it wisely. When they set aside money, they will prepare better for the future. They may think saving isn't necessary now since they are still young and lack of experience. Once they grow up, they'll understand that it makes good sense.

33. SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER Part 2

Describe a piece of technology you like using not computer

A hi-tech device I'd like to describe is the microwave oven. Being one of the main inventions in the 20th century, the microwave oven brings about great changes to our life. I think it is the most useful appliance in the kitchen.

Actually, I heard an advert on TV praising the multiple benefits brought by it, and some days later I made up my mind to buy one and up to now I am really happy with it. We can boil porridge, steam rice and defrost meat in the microwave oven. And we can heat the leftover food in the dishes directly. It's really clean and timesaving.

Compared with traditional cooker, the microwave oven has many advantages. At first, it changes our cooking habit. We needn't suffer from the smell of smoke and oil any more. Besides, there is no unbearable heat in the kitchen if we cook with the microwave oven. We needn't worry about being burnt by the frame or steam, either.

Another advantage of a microwave oven is that it offers us healthier dishes. The food is heated by microwave rather than by direct heat. So, the nutrients in vegetables and meat can be preserved. What's more, the appearance and color of dishes are not destroyed either. Since I got a microwave oven in the kitchen I do more cooking than before. It is convenient and enjoyable.

I think wonders of this hi-tech device as it saves me the hassle of preparing meals. When I come home late, all I need is heat up the left-over food or some canned food and after some minutes you call whip up a good meal right in front of you. I love it for the benefits that I have mentioned earlier.

VERSION 2

There are a whole lot of technological devices that I love using, but if I were to take a pick, I would say that the Google Play Store on my smartphone, and especially the Cambridge dictionary app would be the most marvelous and useful.

It is a quite widely-acclaimed application among learners of English as a second language and is installed by millions of users across the globe. It is not exaggerating but I deem it as a must-have one for anyone struggling with the English language.

Users can benefit from a wide array of functions offered by Cambridge dictionary. The first thing about it is that you can obtain the meaning at no time. With a few operations, a word's meaning and its related phrases pop up on the screen, and there are also illustrations of usages, which I particularly find unique compared to all other e-dictionaries I have made use of.

As a student, I am supposed to use it regularly, especially during my English lessons at school. It is wonderfully convenient and portable as it would be cumbersome if I have to carry a dictionary book with me every time I go to school. So, it saves me my energy really. Besides, thanks to the app I have developed more passion and ensoiasm in English. I often take advantage of the review section and learn well over 100 words a day, which would be out of the question if I learn it in a conventional way.

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER PART 3

1. What is the most common technology used by people in your country, and the second most?

From my observations, computer technology prevails, as most work is done on computers these days. People use Microsoft Word to compose their documents to access Google for research purposes, to name but a few. When it comes to the second rank, I must admit that it' the smartphone. Millions of people, particularly the youths are hooked on their smartphones for social networking and communication. It can be said that the smartphone is just like a small computer.

2. Are there any other places that need technology?

Absolutely, it is the countryside. The introduction of novel technological advances can improve citizens' life quality. A prime example is that robots can finish a variety of tasks precisely without human's maneuver, so they can assist in household tasks from mopping the floor to cooking. This reduces the burden of housework for mothers with childrearing responsibility or fathers who are snowed under with work. The increased amount of free time people more chances to engage in other entertainment or educational activities, which does wonders for their life.

3. Does it possible to live without technology?

I doubt it, technology is a big part of modern life, and it's a must-have essential item, a thing one can't live without. I remember a time when there was a power cut in my house which means there was no internet connection, I had nothing to do that it looked like I was living in a prehistoric time.

4. What are the advantages and disadvantages of technology?

It is commonly believed that our life becomes more colorful and convenient because of technology. Some appliances like the TV, video players and digital cameras enrich our leisure life; and the invention of trains and planes makes it possible to travel a long distance in a short time. On the other hand, the world is becoming more polluted and dangerous because of high technology. Vehicles create air and noise pollution nuclear and biochemical weapons make wars more cruel and disastrous.

5. What is the impact of technology on people's life?

It is saddening to see that the development of technology is becoming faster and faster, and people are increasing their pace of life unconsciously. Because of the development, people become more and more impersonal in society. They have become one little part of the huge machine of society. So I think technology transforms the relationship between people and society to some degree.

6. How do you think modern technology will change the way people work in the future?

It has already changed the way people work in every field and it will continue. For instance, my mom studied to be a graphic designer when she was in college. She did everything by hand 20 years ago. Now, her field grew by using Internet and new technology as she's drawing by computer, bidding work online, and submitting work online. In the future, more work can be done automatically, and all we need to do is just to press the button or to check the jobs if they are ready for collection.

7. How can technology make our life easier?

Thank you for allowing me to answer this. Technology is a blessing for all and has made life easier. by using the technology, you can do the unimaginable things now. Earlier, people had to control their television set like increasing or decreasing the volume or changing channels manually. But in the current days, you don't need to get up to the television set, raise the volume or change the channel and get back to the sofa again. It is the time to change channels or increase/ decrease the volumes with the help of a remote controller. Once, people used papers and pens to write letters to meet their communication needs. The scenarios are altered and people have cellular phones, e-mails, and social networking sites etc. for communication which is the blessing of the modern technology. Also, people now can travel easily than the past and travelling hours has been reduced to a great extent.

34. SOCIAL NETWORK

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER Part 2

Describe a social networking website/platform you use.

Facebook is one of the most used social networking services and popular among the users for some of its unique features. The most impressive feature of this platform is that it is free and the users can make both audio and video calls for free of cost. It also helps to share life with the peer users. This is a great candidate task card topic and I am happy to have it in my share. I would like to thank you for the opportunity and time to let me talk about this.

Honestly, I use Facebook for communicating with my friends and relatives who live far away from me. It also helps me to communicate with some other people and share my recent happening with them in terms of text status or by uploading photographs. In fact, this is the social networking service that has helped me in a number of ways and I can reach to anyone who has an account with the network.

Before using this social networking service, it was really difficult to communicate. And obviously, communication was an expensive matter too. But by using this networking website, I easily can share my thoughts, photos, and many other matters. Besides, students at my university in Tianjin, China, are using this website as a platform for gathering opinions from other students on various socio-economic issues. This is a user-friendly website and requires less knowledge to manage an account.

I am benefited from the website in many ways. Browsing the website, I find out about what's happening in the world. Actually, this has become a great virtual space where people share their own experiences to let the others know. It also helps to play role in different local and international matters. It also helps to stay in touch with friends and family all the time.

More Ideas to talk about this Cue Card/ Candidate Task Card topic:

Topic: Describe a social networking website/platform you use.

1. Facebook is becoming more popular in the UK. This is a very good platform to share our emotions and feelings. I mostly use it to connect with my friends and family. The most important benefit of Facebook is that I can remain in touch with my fellow men. It helps me to know about the latest updates on my family and friends. I also use the platform to share my feelings and dreams. Besides, this is a great way to pass free time.

2. Twitter is a great social networking website in the USA. I use it to share my thoughts. It is highly useful for me. The tweets I make get immediate attention from all over the world. This is a speedy medium to share something. The website is helpful for me in different perspectives. I use this platform to inform about the latest updates on technology.

3. In India, Shtyle is a newly launched social networking website. I use it to create my own avatar. This is great fun indeed. It has a virtual room where someone can create their own avatar. Gaming on the rooms is highly thrilling. Using this website, I can get connected with gamers. Besides, it also helps to expand my imagination by creating the avatar of mine.

4. Using social media is a bit different in China. Here I use WeChat for social communication. It contains almost all the modern features of present social networking websites. So, I love using it. It offers many kinds of benefits to users. It helps to post on the wall, arrange taxi service and many other daily activities. I am greatly benefited from this app. I use it to share my moments with friends, chat with other people and much more.

5. Tumbler is a microblogging website. This has occupied a great position in Malaysia. I use the site for several purposes. I am mostly benefited that I can make some small notes to share with my network. I don't have to spend much time on photo selection or other activities. It also allows the users to follow the other bloggers and get to know about their status. It helps me to express my sudden feelings. In fact, I'm not much of a blogger and use this just to share what I think.

6. Linkedin is a wonderful social networking site. I mostly use the site to know about jobs and other purposes. The website is mostly used by professionals of different working sectors. They post jobs and offers for others. Honestly, I have got my current job using this website. I had been seeking a job for me near Sydney and got this job after finding out about it from the website.

If you can talk about this cue card topic, you should be able to answer the following topics as well:

1. Describe your favourite website.
2. Describe a website you often browse.
3. Describe a useful website you have recently browsed.
4. Describe an application of software you use on your mobile phone.
5. Describe a website or software you find useful to connect with others.

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER Part 3

1. What kinds of social networking websites do you like to use?
2. Are you a social person?
3. What kinds of people do you like to be friends with on those websites?
4. Is it easy to find real friends on a social networking websites?
5. What kinds of chatting app or software do Chinese people like to use?

Well, as for me, the favourite social networking website is Facebook, because it is much easier to find someone from any countries and help me up-to-date with what's happening in their lives.

I didn't think I was a social person before social media tools became popular among people, but when I started to use them, I found myself very talkative with different in my mobile phone, caring about what they are feeling and suffering in their lives.

I'd like to meet someone who is very honest and sincere because if someone who is in the other side of internet likes to tell lies, that would make no sense and be waste of time to talk to that guy.

Well, honestly, I don't think it's easy to find true friendship on the internet because nowadays people like to mask themselves and pretend to be a nice person. Some online close friends have never met each other face-to-face, so it's very easy to be deceptive in social media.

There are lots of social media apps in China, each one has some parts of particular users, like students, young people or single people. But almost all Chinese people like to use WeChat as their primary chatting software because it is not only an instant messaging app, but it can help people do business, online shopping and payment, booking a taxi or cinema tickets; besides, it help connect people more close by some special tools like the Red Packet function.

35. TEENAGERS

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER Part 2

Describe a teenager you know

I know many teenagers but here I would like to talk about my cousin Rania.
She is eighteen years old.
She has just completed her senior secondary in commerce stream.
She is not tall but very beautiful.
She has curly black hair and a very fair complexion.
She generally wears jeans and T-shirts but on formal occasions she wears traditional Punjabi suits.
She is very polite by nature and respects elders.
She has a great sense of humour and can turn any tense situation into a happy one.
She is also very good at studies and many times used to help me when I had any problem in Mathematics.
She also helps me in any situation when I need her help.
Although she is younger than me she is like a true friend.
She is so trustworthy that I can share my deepest secrets to her and be sure that she would never let me down.
Actually she is my paternal uncle's daughter and lives next door.
We see each other daily and sometimes even play badminton in the park opposite our house.
Teenage is a very stressful period of life as there are physical and hormonal changes going on at this time.
At the same time there is the stress of choosing subjects on which their future career depends.
Strong family support is needed at this time.
I am fortunate that my teenage years were a very happy one and so is Rania's.

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER Part 3

1. What is the difference between teenagers and children?

The main difference is the level of maturity. Children are more innocent and immature as compared to teenagers. Life is less complex for children. However, for teenagers, life seems more complex and confusing as they are going through physical, biological, and mental changes. They are neither adults nor children. Those are the most impressionable years of a person's life and it's the time when they make very important decisions about their career goals.

2. Why do you think this difference can classify teenagers and children?

I think this difference is natural because of the changes that they undergo biologically during the teenage years. It is also because of the awareness and the exposure that teenagers have as compared to children.

3. Who do you like teenager or children?

I like both, but I like teenagers better because I can share my feelings with them and be friends with them. Their company makes me feel young.

4. What is the attitude of teenagers towards old people in India?

It is difficult to generalise and put all teens in one group. Some teens in India think that older people are too nagging and dislike their ways, so they avoid them. Some always respect them and take their advice for every matter.

5. Do you think teenagers today are better than those 30 years ago?

I think teenagers were always the same. Their opportunities have made their outlook of life different. Today's teens are the best informed they've ever been. They have access to the internet and satellite TV. They know or you can say have access to all knowledge. Earlier teens had to listen to their elders because their elders were their only source of knowledge. They were dependent. Today they are more independent. So, they behave differently.

6. What are the differences between teenagers and old people?

Old people have the experience of life, which the youth don't have. So old people are not hasty and impatient like teenagers. Also, teens are very comfortable with the latest technology. Older people may find it difficult to learn about the latest gadgets.

36. TRANSPORTATION

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER 1

Part 2

Describe a recent development in your city

Over the last few months, there have been significant changes in my city, particularly the improvement of the public amenities, but if I have to describe one, the local park within a short walk from my house is what I would say the most momentous development having taken place recently.

There is a lot to see in the park, as it is the hub of activities for people living in the city. There were people selling lottery tickets, some hawkers selling their goods, or children playing around on the lawn. While other groups of three or four simply have a good time together catching up in the shade cast by many gigantic trees.

The park offers people living in the city many benefits. First, the atmosphere is fresh and there are many species of plants and flowers to look at. Second, the scene of kids running about in the park and seeing them having fun blows people's mind, you see, it reminds people of their sweet childhood when they spent most of their free time playing in the park.

The park is quite influential to me. In the past, I used to be a couch potato, just sitting aimlessly at home watching TV and scarfing down burgers and fries. But since its construction, the park has turned me into live wire; I usually work out in the park every morning, and now I'm quite in good shape.

PART 3

1. What measures should the government take to solve transportation problems in traveling?

The government can do a lot to solve traffic problems. For example, better education for citizens to follow traffic rules, more provision of public transportation facilities, such as buses and underground railways, as well as broadening the roads or building skyways, can all help reduce traffic problems.

2. What types public transport can be found in your country?

Obviously, there's quite a mixed variety of public transport in my country. When we travel on the roads, it's easy to find a mass of buses, taxis, or even trains. If someone wants to have an outbound trip, plane is crucial. However, the most commonly-used would potentially be buses, since they are so cheap and reliable.

3. Why types of public transport do you use most?

I think I take buses more often than any other means of transport. That might be because I'm prone to getting carsick, and buses aren't so stuffy. Also, the bus doesn't cost me much because with only 200,000 dong for a monthly pass, I could commute to work every day without any anxiety.

4. Are there any public transport problems in your country'?

With an increase of private cars in my country, during the rush hour there are always packed and people often get very frustrated due to this, the road quality, also, is too poor to meets the needs of the overwhelming vehicular traffics. This might leads to the increase in serious accidents recently.

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER 2

Part 2

Describe a trip that you went on by public transportation

Frankly speaking, I'm not a fan of public transport, so I haven't been on many journeys by bus. train or taxi up to now. However, out of those I have taken, the most pleasant experience was when I travelled on a package tour to X – only within a 50-kilometer drive from my house. It was a small tour and we travelled in a bus as the travel agency owns a public transport corporation.

Off the top off my head, the tour was quite reasonably priced, at $100 for merely 2 days as it promised luxurious accommodation and tasty foods. So you see, I just went for it without second thought as it was exactly, what I would expect. The first part of the journey was good enough for me because it took us not much time to reach the destination. Besides, I did get chances to engage in any gossip with other passengers and the trip just went by with a lot of fun. Travelling by bus like this for long distance was an experience I hadn't had before, as the bus condition was good and the service was decent.

The moment we checked in a hotel near the beach, I was really glad that the quality of the room was up to standard. The bed was pretty comfortable and the air-conditioner worked extremely well. Regarding the swimming and the seafood, the weather then was so sunny for sunbathing and I felt like jumping my feet into the seawater. To add it to the fun, because we travelled during off season, the seafood was very cheap. This is the bus tour that left me with most deep memories, I also take pride in protecting the environment as well.

PART 3

1. How to encourage more people to take public transportation?

Encouraging the public to make use of the public transit is quite a tough task as the facilities and infrastructures are not developed So with a view to achieving that, there should be an increase in the number of public means of transport like buses, trains, and subways with better service quality so that the general population feels worth it to leave their motorbike or car at home and make daily commutes by public transport. Also, government should run more awareness raising campaigns to educate people about the importance of conserving the environment via small actions such as taking public transport. Posters can be stuck on electrical poles on the streets, or banners should be hung outside buildings, for example.

2. Causes and contributing factors of traffic congestion

Traffic congestion is caused by different factors; bad weather, poor signal timing, car accidents, inadequate roadway capacity, insufficient number of roads. Substandard road conditions, and increased number of cars; roads and transport services suffer when they are overused. Urban sprawl and unplanned urban growth contribute to the traffic congestion of large cities.

3. What measures should the government take to solve transportation problems in traveling?

The government can do a lot to solve traffic problems. For example, better education for citizens to follow traffic rules, more provision of public transportation facilities, such as buses and underground railways, as well as broadening the roads or building skyways, can all help reduce traffic problems.

Other suggestions to reduce traffic

To apply automated traffic management systems, to improve public transport systems, to encourage people to use more public transport, to provide carpooling facilities, to establish car sharing schemes, to ease traffic jams through radio reports, to impose vehicle emission laws: a regulatory system planned to limit the number of cars on the roads could be introduced, to ban private cars from entering certain areas of the city, to increase the number of roads, to provide a safe network of walking and cycling routes.

4. What types public transport can be found in your country?

Obviously, there's quite a mixed variety of public transport in my country. When we travel on the roads, it's easy to find mass of buses, taxis, or even trains. If someone wants to have an outbound trip, plane is crucial. However, the most commonly-used would potentially be buses, since they are so cheap and reliable.

5. Why types of public transport do you use most?

I think I take buses more often than any other means of transport. That might be because I'm prone to getting carsick, and buses aren't so stuffy. Also, the bus doesn't cost me much because with only 200,000 dong for a monthly pass, I could commute to work every day without any anxiety.

6. Are there any public transport problems in your country?

With an increase of private cars in my country, during the rush hour there are always packed kind people often get very frustrated due to this, the road quality, also, is too poor to meets the needs of the overwhelming vehicular traffics. This might leads to the increase in serious accidents recently.

37. INVENTION

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER 1

Part 1: Do you want to become an inventor in the future?

Actually I find myself not creative enough to be an inventor. I don't have a necessary amount of technical know-how and patience to go through a lot of trial and error. I would like to be a person who can enjoy the inventions rather than the one who can invent them.

Part 2: Describe an inventor that you admire the most.

Wow, honestly, today I would like to describe Thomas Edison - an American and one of the greatest inventors of all time and he is considered one of the men that have changed the world.

I mention him for his perseverance through a lot of trial and error and the usefulness of his inventions. He is famous all over the world for being a very productive inventor, who has more than 1,000 patents for more than 1,000 inventions throughout his life – a very impressive number! It took him many years to invent those things and his inventions range from fluoroscope, phonograph,… but the most outstanding one must be the light bulb, which is the thing that we still use today. After a lot of experiment then failure and other difficulties, he finally invented one of the greatest inventions in humankind history. The arrival of the light bulb in 1880 was an important moment in history when it put an end to darkness and people had a brand new household appliance to light.

Also, the phonograph, or a record player, is also one of his famous inventions. Although now it is only used by a small number of people, it used to be the most popular entertaining application for millions of people around the world. Also, Thomas Edison is also famous for his quote: "Genius is one percent inspiration and ninety-nine percent perspiration", which inspires people to work with perseverance and passion then success will come to them.

Part 3: What should government do to encourage inventors?

Well, I think inventors are an important part of an economy, where creativity is make a top priority and innovations are made to serve the life of people so it is crucial that inventors be encouraged. Government should raise a fund for inventors and when each invention is made, they will be awarded an amount of money. Also, each invention should be examined carefully and turned into products to assist inventors and make them feel more motivated to create new things.

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER 2

Part 1: Do you enjoy using technological devices?

Definitely yes.

I have to say that I am a techie and I love to browse websites in my free time to find information about the latest new technology. I am a big fan of them; for example, smart phone, TV or computer. I think my life would suffer a lot of difficulties if I don't have these technological inventions.

Part 2: Describe an invention that changes people's life.

Well, when it comes to invention, I would choose smart phone – which is one of the revolutionary creations of human beings.

It is both convenient and cost-effective. In the past, when there was no smart phone, people could only get in touch with each other through telephone and it took ages to reach one person but now, with only one smart phone, we can use it for various purposes. Not only can we call others but we can also see their face, keep updated with their daily activities or do other kinds of entertainment; for example, listen to music or surf the net. Also, there are available applications such as Grab which helps us catch a taxi or motorbike much more easily. With this smart device, there seems to be little barrier in communication among people.

Also, smart phone helps reduce the cost of our call as we have online application such as Viber, Skype or Whatsapp. We can also do the shopping without going to traditional markets. With just one screen and one touch, we can get whatever we want and have them delivered to our home. People often say that with only one smart phone, they can carry the whole world with them. So you see, it is a wonderful thing to have it in our life!

Part 3: What do you think are the drawbacks of technological inventions?

Well, I have to say yes. Technological breakthroughs help humans in many ways and our life is much more convenient. However, people now tend to rely a lot on those inventions, which might make us lazier. We won't do household chores on a regular basis as automated robots will take over them. Also, smart phones may hinder us from meeting face-to-face with our beloved people. I think that we should use these devices wisely to avoid being its victims.

38. TRAVEL & HOLIDAYS

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER Part 2

Describe an perfect vacation away from home you would like to have in the future

This topic actually makes me think of a holiday I am planning for Christmas this year. I would love to make a trip to Hokkaido. I am so excited about the holiday that I have to tell you all about it.

During the Christmas holiday, I long to be surrounded by snow and beautiful decor. This is one of the reasons why I am over the moon to head to Hokkaido. The scenery there is so beautiful that it almost doesn't seem real. I saw the location on many TV programs and have had the image in my head for quite some time. The area has quite a lot of shopping areas too, which will help keep US busy. Plus, there are tons of places to chow down on delicious food. I am excited to treat my parents to such meals and to have some quality time with them without interruption.

Of course, one of the main reasons I want to go on this trip is to show my parents the snow. They actually haven't been around deep snow before and I think they would have the time of their lives playing in it. I know, it will help them to kick back and relax, which they both deserve. Plus, the view of all of the snow will make our Christmas celebration feel magical.

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER Part 3

1) Do you like short holidays or long holidays?

Well, I prefer the long holidays. The first thing I'd mention is that the long holiday provides me a chance to stay with my family. My university is in the south, however, my hometown is located in the north-east and it usually costs me twenty hours to take the train home. In this case, I can only go home to see my family when the holiday is long. Second, I can always travel to other cities during the long holidays. As for me, I like travelling to different cities during free time. If the holiday is long enough, I can take the chance to go to other cities and know more about the world, it is also a good way to broaden my horizon. So, based on the reasons mentioned above, I prefer the long holidays.

2) Do you think modern life give people enough time for leisure?

No, I don't think so. The first thing I'd mention is that the pace of life is becoming faster. In today's society, competition is becoming more intense. In order to survive in such a competitive environment, people may have to work late to make more money. In this case, people will focus more on the work, rather than paying enough attention to getting enough rest. Second, people are facing too much pressure nowadays, especially for students. The high school students are facing the pressure from the college entrance examination and the university students are facing the heavy pressure from the competitive job market, so students may feel they need to work harder to build a better future. So, based on the reasons mentioned above, I think people in modern society lack leisure time.

3) What's the most important factor for a tourist attraction?

Basically speaking, I think there are three important factors. What I want to mention firstly is the history. The tourist attraction can reflect the history of a place, and the reason why the tourists visit this attraction is that they want to know more about what has happened in the past. Second, the environment of the tourist attraction should also be good. With the development of the society, the pollution in the city is becoming even more serious. So, the tourists also want to breathe the fresh air and appreciate the beautiful scenery during the trip. Third, the ticket price of the tourist attraction should not be too expensive. The commodity price of today's society is still growing and it is not very easy for people to earn money. The cheap ticket price can attract more people to travel.

4) Do you think we should have more public holidays?

Yes, I think so. The first thing I'd mention is that people are facing too much pressure nowadays. In this competitive society, the white collars are facing heavy working pressure since they have to work hard in order to win promotion. For the high school students, they are facing the pressure from the study since they have to get a high score in the college entrance examination. Second, people need more holidays to stay with their families. In today's society, many people work far away from the home. If we have more holidays, those people can have more time to accompany their families and I think the relationship among the family members will also be closer accordingly. So, based on the reasons mentioned, we should have more public holidays.

39. PARENTS / CHILDREN

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER Part 2

Describe someone who is a good parent/ Describe a good parent you know

Ok right then, if I had to think of one, the parent I'd like to talk about is the mother of a good friend of mine, and the reason for choosing to talk about her is that my friend is always going on about how lucky he is to have such a nice mum. And from what I know about her, I'd say he's absolutely right.

Anyway, as for how I know her, well it's basically because I went to the same middle school as her son. And because we became pretty good friends, we ended up seeing quite a lot of each other's parents, especially during the holidays when we often went over to each other's homes.

And regarding what his mother looks like, well interestingly enough, she actually looks pretty similar to my own mother, because they both have quite round faces and long wavy hair. Having said that, I've noticed that my friend's mother often ties her hair up in a bun whereas my mother usually always keeps it down. And another thing to mention would be that whenever I see her, she always seems to be wearing red clothes, which I guess is probably because red suits her quite well.

But anyway, finally then, with regard to why I think she's a good parent, well I'd say there are quite a few reasons, one of which would be that she's always been very supportive to her son. And just to give you an example, when he wondered what major to study at university, he ended up choosing music. And his mother gave him her full support, which is probably not what many other parents would have done, as music doesn't really leave open a lot of career choices.

And I think it's fair to say that nowadays, a lot of parents persuade their children to do things which they think are best for them, but my friend has said that his parents have never been like this with him, especially his mother. So I kind of get the impression that she's never forced him to do anything against his will, and has always let him make his own decisions, which I think's really great.

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER PART 3

1. In a typical family, who plays the leading role?

Well, the stereotype is that the father is the breadwinner of the family, the person who makes the decisions and takes responsibility for the whole family. This can be understandable because the father tends to occupy high positions in society while the mother tends to be housewife or only gets involved in some trivial work like cleaning or babysitting. However, this is not really the case in modern society where freedom and equality is being put a higher emphasis on. Women are as successful as men and are no longer in charge of the monotonous household chores like they were in the past.

2. In your country, what kinds of family members usually live together?

Well, as far as I know, despite the increasing popularity of nuclear families, extended ones still exist in our society. Usually both parents and one, two or three kids would live together under the same roof. In other cases, a grandmother or grandmother joins them to take care of the small kids while parents are away for work, for example. Other less common situations are many generations reside in the same house, usually a multi-story house. Families like these often consist of an uncle, aunt, and their families and so on. Typically, many problems occur when a great many members are in a similar place.

3. Do young and middle-age people live with old people?

Frankly speaking, unlike in Western countries where it is common to send older grandparents to nursing homes, most people are bound by their duty, which means that they should or, in another sense, have to pay back what their parents have given them. As a consequence, the young generations and middle-aged people tend to share the same house with older people. This can be beneficial since small children can receive special care from their grandparents, obtain invaluable hands-on experience and tend to develop a good code of conduct later on.

4. What would children do to make their parents proud?

I guess kids can have good performances at school and behave well to their teachers and the elders. Parents usually take a great pride in their kids if their children get a good score at school, or when others tell them that their kids are nice people. As well as this, I deem it a necessity if children help their parents out with mundane tasks around the house like sweeping the floor, or washing the dishes.

5. Should teenagers have freedom?

Honestly, they should be given freedom to a certain extent. At this that age, most teenagers can go through a lot of changes as they grow up and they're can be particularly rebellious toward their parents. Given this, parents should allow them to do what really interests them rather than forcing them to follow certain rules. Having said this, the role of parents is to monitor and advise their children to be on the right path, stepping in when necessary if their child makes mistakes or does something unacceptable.

6. Do you like to spend time on your own or with your family/friends?

I would love to hang out with my families more. As my parents are always tied up at work we can hardly manage time for one another. So, we often try our best to spend time by having a dinner together at some restaurants at the weekend or see a movie together if time permits. For me, it's much better to build a close family and strengthen our bonds.

7. What are parents' responsibilities for their children?

Basically, parents are responsible for keeping their children safe and raising them. Obviously, it includes a lot of things, such as feeding them, comforting them and looking after them in different situations. They need to make sure that their children have everything they need and are well looked after, have opportunities to learn, grow, and become responsible people.

8. What's the influence of parents on their children?

For one thing, parents' behavior influence their children greatly. If parents are polite, generous and kind, their children tend to be like this. Besides, parents can also influence their children when it comes to important decisions. I think good parents should help their children make better decisions and offer them useful guidance. What's more, parents' attitudes to work, marriage and life can also influence their children. The children may lose confidence in love and marriage if their parents often quarrel.

Xem thêm từ vựng topic Family ngay TẠI ĐÂY

40. NEWS /MAGAZINES

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER Part 2

Describe a magazine you enjoy watching

There is a magazine that I really enjoy reading called Vogue. I was first introduced to this magazine when I went to a friend's home for tea one evening.

I discovered it lying on her coffee table. I flipped through its pages and became immediately hooked. I found myself buying It every month. I bought Issues at various newsstands, convenient stores, and once or twice from a grocery store.

Vogue addresses topics of fashion, life and design. However, if there is one thing that makes buying Vogue worthwhile, it is the articles. They are written by professional and reputable writers who write in-depth about the products, events, and people, house, fashion, and everything else there is to write about. There are lots of ads in Vogue, which many people hate, but they don't bother me. I actually enjoy them because they are still showing beautiful people in fashionable outfits.

The main target for Vogue magazine is young women. The stories are focused on famous female celebrities and their opinions. The ads are all feminine products. What I think most young girls buy the magazine for is its amazing fashion tip. The fashion taste is great and the shoot are amazing.

It is an all-round magazine for young girls; but for me it isn't—it's only fashion, and it serves me well. Vogue is classy and stylish, it features the best fashion and you don't have to be rich to read this magazine. People who are not interested in fashion will probably hate this magazine, and that is probably why it has received so much criticism. I, on the other hand, love this magazine and look to this magazine for some fantastic fashion inspiration.

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER PART 3

1. What kinds of magazines are popular?

Actually, when it comes to magazines, I'm not quite a big fan. But if I have to answer this question, I would say that magazines that specialize in gardening, fashion, do-it-yourself are all the rage in my country. People love do the gardening, planting trees or vegetables while others are keen on repairing and mending household appliances, or an overwhelming majority of individuals would be hooked by fashion trends, so I guess those three types of magazines would have a wider appeal Compared to the rest.

2. Is journalist an interesting job?

I think this occupation Requires great stamina and persistence to be a journalist, you have too on lots of field trips, travelling nationwide to obtain information for their news articles. Those detest travelling are not cut out to be journalist or correspondent. Another point worth considering is that they have to take great care and be responsible for the truthfulness of their articles. If not, they may be accused of exaggerating or misrepresenting the real situation, and can be even imprisoned if they happen to libel the state in some ways.

3. Why do some journalists go to the battlefield to report the war?

I guess these heroic figures want the readers to have an on-the-spot coverage of the event so that people can have the best picture of what's going on there. Being a correspondent during war times can pose an imminent threat to their life but they are in a position to sacrifice their life simply for the sake of the general public. I guess such people must extremely courageous and patriotic to embark on such a life-threatening mission.

4. Why do some people still read paper magazines?

Most of these readers tend to be middle-aged or elderly people as they find it difficult to gain access to modern technology. Most of them are computer illiterate and have a hard time handling hi-tech device such as smartphones, so reading e-magazine would be out of their reach. Interestingly, some people prefer to collect magazines of their interested fields because they can store them and then take out for later reading, as compared to online versions, which may be deleted or removed after some weeks; a paper magazine lasts almost forever.

5. Do you think it's important to keep up with the news?

Many people walk through their lives delightfully unaware of most of the events and issues going on in the world outside of their daily lives. One of the media's major roles is to serve as a watchdog that keeps people informed. As social creatures that care about what is going on around them, human beings rely a great deal on news. It is important not only because It provides people with information that allows them to live their lives easier, but more importantly because it is the primary way that the popular can stay informed and so govern themselves. It can help one make informed decisions when performing their civic duties.

6. What are the main differences between magazines and newspapers?

Magazines are made to sell products and to entertain; while newspapers are used more Just to Inform readers about the important aspects that affect your lives. Most magazines are just celebrity gossip. It is not necessarily verifiable It plays no direct role in the way a person lives his/her life. It certainly plays no role in helping inform people so they can he good citizens and govern themselves. Its complete lack of relevancy to I person's life makes celebrity gossip entertainment, not news.

7. Why do some people only read the headlines when they read a newspaper?

Most of us, who are interested in the news, usually have busy schedules. We usually only have time to read a newspaper on the bus or train, and that is if there is not too many people. So when people like me read the newspaper, we first scan the headlines to find the most interesting issue of the day. If a headline doesn't catch our attention, we don't read it; unless we still have some spare time. Then there are articles that we think have no significance in our lives, so we don't even consider reading them; so, just that article's headline gets read.

41. ENVIRONMENT & POLLUTION

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER Part 1

1. Are there any environmental problems in your country?

Absolutely yes, the most common environmental issue in my hometown is exhausted emissions produced by cars and motorbikes have been afflicting the air and water quality. My government is struggling to deal with the problem.

2. Do you take an interest in nature?

Of course yes, As a city person, I barely have a opportunity to experience the natural environment. Then whenever I have a holiday, I really prefer to go to the faraway destination, so I could get closer to the nature and discover the natural world.

3. Do you or your family take steps to help the environment?

Yes we do. We always turn of lights or electronic appliances when they are unnecessary. Although this is minor action, but I believe that it could make significantly contribution to the environment.

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER Part 2

Describe environmental pollution in you city.

I have been living in Hanoi for almost 8 years, then I have the chance to see how the city has changed in these years. Due to the increasing number of tourist, Hanoi' environment has been polluted significantly. Indeed, many people traveling to there has thrown illegally thrown rubbish into the land and water, which causes to land and water pollution. Also, industrial and household waste from factories and families is contributing to the high level of pollution.

In order to solve this issues, I would recommend the Hanoi's authority to heavily fine who are caught realising trash into the atmosphere. By carrying out the rule, people being intent to litter the environment will be afraid of being punished, which can deter them from discharging unlawful waste. Another solution is that the government should run some campaigns to raise the awareness of people about how important the environment is. For example, showing local people and visitors the danger of global warming and greenhouse effect that I believe could change their attitude towards the protection of environment, which is likely to have a good impact on air quality.

Although the two actions above is just simple, I think it will be an effective way to reduce the environmental pollution in a long-term.

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER Part 3

1. What do you think is the main danger the world face in term of environment?

It would have to be global warming, which cause some natural disasters such as flash flood and drought. The problem mainly stems from enhanced greenhouse effect in recent year. I believe that several steps should be taken to deal with the issue.

2. What example are there of how we damage the natural world?

There are factories that release toxic waste directly into the air and water, which is main cause of air and water pollution. As a result loss of habitats is increasingly common, many people are diagnosed with health problems such as lung and throat cancer. Also, a large number of land and rain forests are destroyed to make a way for agriculture field.

42. FASHION & CLOTHES

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER Part 2

Describe a time that you wore a type of clothes for a special occasion

By nature, I prefer simplicity and always pick casual clothes no matter what the occasion is. Yet if I had to think of one, there comes a time when I had to put on a suit for a photo shoot for our yearbook, which I personally feel quite burdensome and formal.

Everyone was supposed to dress smartly and formally for the occasion, so boys were told to have their black suit on, and a pair of shining shoes or a brand-new pair of sneakers for footwear. I did also wear a necktie to look more elegant and advanced. The girls were simpler in their clothes; some colorful traditional clothes could do wonders to their outer appearance.

The suits were rented from a store that specializes in renting costumes for artists or students about to graduate, and fortunately our monitor made great preparations beforehand so we had our clothes rented dirt cheap.

I'd have to admit that it was the very first time I put on formal wear, so my friends made quite sarcastic comments about my look at saying that I looked quite serious and unnatural. But somehow I was quite satisfied with how the clothes fitted me perfectly, and afterwards I tried to be more at ease I would say I looked great. I mapped dozens of selfie pictures and stored in my phone and sometimes take them out and feel quite nostalgic, actually.

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER PART 3

1. What kinds of clothes do people wear after work?

There are many kinds of clothes people can choose to put on when people go home from their office. One of the most popular types is shorts and T-shirts, which I think is favored by both sexes. I guess this is simply because at the, workplace staff are supposed to dress formally and such clothes are pretty uncomfortable. So, casual wear helps the blood circulate better and which relaxing their body. Many people are also keen on gym clothes, pajamas or skirts as it doesn't increase their laundry, which means they don't have to wash their clothes frequently.

2. What kinds of clothes should people wear at work?

Actually, I think it depends on what people do. One of the most popular types among manual laborers is thick pieces of garments with protective gear as these help them to prevent injuries and dirt. However, those working in the office have different dress code for sure. To be more precise, office workers tend to dress more formally like a pair of trousers and shirts for males or a dress for females. This is probably because they have to present a professional Image in the eyes of the customers or wearing such clothes gives staff more confidence in their ability.

3. Do you think it is necessary for children to wear school uniforms?

I think I strongly believe that it's absolutely vital for school children to wear uniforms. The most convincing reason is that in a developing country, if all students wear the same clothes, which are white shirts and blue pants, then poor students will feel less humiliated and embarrassed about the financial conditions and so can focus more on their academic study. The second reason is that uniform brings and cultivates a sense of belonging and unity in a group. Besides, it will be pretty pleasing to the eyes, if you see students in their uniforms in the schoolyard line up to enter the class, which I think is unique in my country.

4. Where do people in your country buy clothes?

Actually, there is quite many places people can purchase their clothes. The most typical one is at the supermarket where clothes of all price ranges are on display. I reckon it absolutely caters for consumers' interest as they are able to pick whatever item of garment they like and try it on, ask their buddies' opinion and so on. Another place is at the market or alongside the streets. Clothes sold at these points are often of lower quality but at more reasonable prices, which is quite a popular choice among less well-off folks. Needless to say but most people are short of cash at times so this alternative seems to be pretty good.

5. When do people wear formal clothes?

Formal attire is often a must on important occasions such as meetings, ceremonies and other solemn events. Having said this, it's becoming more and more popular that people nowadays prefer casual wear on nearly all occasions and it's a standard practice in my country, I'd have to admit. For example, it's absolutely normal to wear jeans and T-shirts to weddings, birthdays, meetings and so on. if the nature of the event is not too serious. This is quite in contrast to that of Westerners who often hut on a suit or a dress every time they join a formal event.

6. Do people wear formal clothes more often or less often than the past?

I'd say casual attire is gaining more popularity as people in modern society prefer flexibility and convenience. For example, it's absolutely normal to wear jeans and T-shirts to weddings, birthdays, meetings and so on, if the nature of the event is not too serious. This is quite in contrast to that of Westerners who often put on a suit or a dress every time they join a formal event.

7. Will the way we dress influence the way we behave?

This is an interesting question, and my answer is yes. For those creative people, they often choose a combination of diverse colors in their clothing style and such people tend to be fashionistas who have a firm grasp of a hat to wear to make them look best. These people are dynamic, energetic and love to socialize. On the other hand, those who often wear plain clothes to belong to a group which doesn't have much ensoiasm about fashion and IS willing to put on anything they can find in their wardrobe every morning.

43. GENERATION GAP

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER Part 2

Q: Describe a person who you like to spend time with

A: I'm grateful to have such a supportive family and a large circle of friends who are always be there for me no matter what. I spend most of my free time surrounded with my beloved friends and family. Even though I love them all to the moon and back, my younger sister, Jade, is the one that's closest to me.

Jade is seven years younger than me, which might create some sense of generation gap, yet, we still get along well, or at least most of the time. She is in high school now and has a dream of becoming a doctor one day. In term of appearance, we have little in common. By that I mean while I'm kind of tall, she's relatively short; while I take after my father, she's my mom's splitting image. Same thing with our characteristics. I am people-oriented and a true free spirit, Jade, on the contrary, is quite introverted and into stability. So, that came as a huge surprise when others acknowledge our strong bond. We're like 2 sides of the same coin.

No matter how different we are, we have never neglected or abandoned each other. In fact, we are partners in crime in so many impulsive and silly acts that our family has lost count. Once, I tried to play the victim with my uncle as I accidentally broke a crystal vase that my aunt adored, Jade backed me up as we put the blame on our poor cousin. What a shameful act! But that was years ago and we learned our lesson in a hard way. Another time when my sister's teacher asked to meet our parents because Jade had ditched class. To her defense, that subject was boring and I was the one who talked to her teacher. In the end, Jade had to serve more time at the library and we kept this from our parents and so were other things. We got each other's back and we always will because that's what sisters do and simply because I love her.

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER PART 3

1. How do you usually spend your spare time?

Honestly, I barely have free time between work and study these days. However, whenever I need a break from work or try to loosen myself a little bit, I always turn to music. Music is my religion, so to speak and I don't know what I would do without it. No matter how awful my day has been or how really happy I am with my new project, music always gets my mood. It offers comfort when I feel down with some smooth melodies and celebrates my success with hard beats, totally understanding. So, it is safe to say music is my soulmate.

2. Why do some young people dislike living with old people?

The most common reason might be a large generation gap between youngsters and their senior citizen in terms of mindsets and living style. To be more precise, young people are more open-minded and always up for adventures in comparison to the elder. They live bolder, act more impulsively and refuse to settle for anything less than freedom and big dream while their grandparents are more careful in every decision and take into account possible consequences before making any move. So, when living together, they can hardly reach any mutual consent in any aspect. However, there are also exceptions where 2 or 3 generations living in harmony under the same roof.

3. What do you usually do when you hang out with your friends?

Well, the kinds of activities can vary depends on which groups of friends I hang out with. If they are my best friends whom I've known most of my life, we will undoubtedly do silly things together regardless how ridiculous it would look on us. For example, one time, we were playing truth or dare when I was forced to stand in the middle of the road singing my heart out Justin Timberlake's songs. It was one of the most embarrassing moments of my life and of course, as what best friends always did, they recorded it and replayed occasionally anytime we got bored. Though it was distinctly sheepish, it was how we enjoyed our company whenever we hung out.

4. Do you like to spend time on your own or with your family/friends?

I would say I enjoy both equally. I don't consider myself an extrovert but I love being surrounded by people, whether they're my family, friends or just someone I meet at a social gathering. I find it intriguing to communicate and get to know people no matter who they are or what their political standpoint is since every individual I talk to gives me a different perspective of life. So, I don't mind spending time with others. However, whenever I feel the need to contemplate myself or just want to get away from reality, I prefer being on my own.

5. What are the advantages of living with old people?

Old people are like living dictionaries packed with endless stories about lifetime experience and wide bread of knowledge. Though born and raised in different social context, they can always provide youngsters with practical pieces of advice and be a valuable reference sources whenever we are in need. For example, if you get bored with all the facts and dates listed in history books, which are highly informative, yet, tedious, turn to your grandparents and get ready to be inspired by their personal insights and authentic experience. No one knows the stories better than those who have been through it.

6. Should young adults live on their own?

I think adolescences who have reached their maturity should live apart from their families to be more emotionally and financially independent. This kind of practice is more common in European and American countries compared to their Asian counterparts, which can be explained by traditional lifestyles and mindsets. However, the number of Asian youngsters moving out of their parents' houses are growing significantly since living on their own not only force them to be more responsible with their lives from washing their own dishes to ironing their clothes, but also offer them certain freedom to pursue what they want.

44. TELEVISION

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER PART 2

Describe a TV program

I'm going to talk about "Who wants to be a millionaire", one of my favorite TV shows ever. As far as I can remember, it was originally a UK TV Game Show, and it made its first debut in my country around 10 years ago.

This was kind of a quiz show in which contestants have to go through a set of 15 questions with increasing difficulty. The first 5 questions are pretty silly really, and they always give me and my family a good laugh. Contestants are given 4 lifelines to aid them with difficult questions, and most of them are usually used up when the contestant reaches around question 7 or 8. The entire show is a sea of knowledge. Many questions from different fields are asked, ranging from trivial things like ingredients needed to make cookies to academic stuff like quantum physics and archeology.

You know, I'm quite a curious man, so back when I was a high school kid, I hardly missed an episode. When the Internet became available in Vietnam, I started to watch the UK and US version as well, and knowledge acquired from those shows were really helpful to me in many of my high school knowledge quizzes.

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER Part 3

1. Do young people like to watch TV nowadays?

I would say no. The Internet is a much better option; everything from films and TV series to music is available on the Net, some of which are free of charge (or at least in my country I think). Young people, with their smartphones in hand, no longer feel the need to watch TV.

2. What kind of TV programs do young people like?

Mostly soap operas, I believe. More women watch TV than men do, and romances are their favorites. Also, cartoons are popular among kids, and students in Vietnam also love quiz shows.

3. Do you think TV will be replaced by computers?

Yes, it's very likely. I can see that coming really. The Internet has been a much better option; everything from films and TV series' to music is available on the Net, some of which are free of charge. Young people, with their smartphones in hand, no longer feel the need to watch TV. I would call it the "natural" selection of technology.

4. What do you think about TV ads?

TV commercials help us to know about stuff we need to buy, so I think it's pretty useful. However, at times it can be very annoying when it interrupts our favorite shows.

45. PHOTOGRAPHY

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER Part 2

Describe a photo of yourself that was taken by others

There was a time when photos where only taken by a camera, but now everything has changed. Computers and mobile phones have enabled people to take a lot of photos and I think people take billions of photos everyday in this world. I myself take so many photos that I sometimes forget which photograph have taken and when did I take it. There is one of my photographs which I like the most, taken by my aunt.

I happened to visit to my aunt on the way to school, and I asked her to take a photo of me and her daughter. In this photographs which I am carrying my niece and she is smiling at me. My niece is quite small at that time and has a really cute face with pretty childlike expressions whereas I am grinning with the biggest smile on my face with one hand holding my niece. The photo was so loveable that I made it the wallpaper of my computer and whenever I open the computer the first thing I see on the computer is that photograph.

The photo was taken 4 years ago, and shows how time passed by and how the world changes. After looking at the photograph I remembered that my niece was crying a lot and my sister was giving her to the maid, but as I decided to hold her in my arms she got happy and smiled and that was the moment when the photograph was taken. The photograph shows a time when I was happy and a time when used to have an optimistic view of the world but now all optimism and love has just vanished from my life.

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER PART 3

1. How to become a professional photographer?

Put it this way, to become an expert at a particular field, a person needs specialized training and being a professional photographer is no exception. To excel in this field, you are supposed to have a keen eye for beauty, which means you can get the hang of how to adjust the angles, zoom in or out so that everyone fits in the picture in the most appealing way. In a nutshell, everything can be learned, and it is only a matter of time before a person becomes proficient at it.

2. Do you need a professional photographer for important events?

With the arrival of smartphones with many built-in features for taking photo or video-taping, I doubt the necessity of hiring a professional photographer when it comes to certain events. I have seen many people use their Iphones to livestream the wedding or a birthday party with high-quality images with ease. Having said this, you won't regret with the assistance of a professional cameraman or photographer, simply because you can obtain better quality images, or they can create an album or a video for you in a professional way. So, on grand occasions like a wedding ceremony at the church, a photographer seems to be a must.

3. What kinds of devices do people like to use for taking photos these days?

There are two most common devices when it comes to taking photographs recently. The most common one is smartphone. With the development of technology and the appearance of smartphones, taking a high-quality selfie or a landscape picture becomes a piece of cake. Actually some brands like Sony offer HD photos and the users can adjust the dimensions to their liking. The second type is DSLR camera, which is quite a status symbol among those who love taking pictures. This is quite an advanced and professional way of taking a photo, which means that you have to change the focus and choose the right angle to Wendell the most beautiful pictures.

4. Why do some people like to keep photos? = Are photos important?

Well, the main reason why a number of people usually keep their photos is that photos Record sweet memories. No doubt when they grow up and become an old person, they can open their albums, see how they were some 30 years ago and spend a bit time on looking back at unforgettable memories of the bygone days! This gives them pleasure and more motivation to keep giving to the rest of their lives. People can also show these photos to their children or grandchildren and boast of their beauty somehow.

5. Has the way people take photos changed?

Yes, definitely. As I have mentioned, today digital age means that people use advanced hi-tech devices to take pictures like a smartphone or DSLR camera. No longer do the youths have to take a bulky camera with them, a smartphone can do the job pretty well.

6. When do people smile?

Some people smile all the time, and by their smiles, we can judge that they are being over the moon because of something happy. On other occasions, a smile is treated as symbol of friendliness! and it's commonly used as a part of our daily greetings! When we meet some acquaintance or a stranger, giving a smile shows our hospitality towards others, and helps to break the ice among people.

46. FILMS / MOVIE

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER PART 2

Describe a TV drama series you have watched.

Watching movies is the most effective stress-reliever I've ever found; so, I spend lots of time following my favorite TV shows or its rebroadcast whenever I'm free from work. Among loads of TV series I've watched, nothing can beat Gossip Girls, a show I'd grown obsessed with during my high school years and still haven't been over it yet till now.

Gossip Girls is an American TV drama series based on the book of the same name which was aired from 2007 to 2012, including six seasons. Gossip Girls follows the lives of privileged teenagers in Manhattan's Upper East Side with tons of twists and thoughtful moments. There are hundreds of reasons I love the show and I have no doubt why it once was the most popular series with 18 Teen Choice Awards. First, the cast is breathtakingly gorgeous. Every one of them. [Serena Van Der Woodsen, a blonde and beautiful socialite and Blair Waldorf, Serena's best friend and Queen B at their high school are two main lead actresses. Their relationship is like a roller coaster and more than once they become rivals, however, they always come around, which makes the show so beautiful to watch. Nate Archibald is the so-called "golden boy". Chuck Bass a rich and arrogant person. And finally, Daniel Humphrey a lonely boy from Brooklyn who nobody knows.] They have great chemistry and are all talented actors. Second, the show has the finest fashion moments ever. It can be said that Gossip Girls gained most of its reputation thanks to its glamorous and extravagant costume collections. From their main cast to occasional cameos, they always turn heads every time they appear in their stunning outfits. Finally, the highlight of the show is a ruthless and notorious blogger, aka Gossip Girls whose identity remains unknown until the very last episode of the whole series, which only entices the TV audiences more. The list can go on and on and I highly recommend the series for those who want to have a glimpse into the lavish lifestyle of the upper-class as well as their fabulous fashion.

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER PART 3

1. Is drama series popular in your country? Why?

Sadly no. Although Gossip Girls was a phenomenon in America, not many people were aware of it in my country. I believe the limited exposure to foreign culture, especially American as well as the unavailability of cable TV at that time were two main reasons. The very first episode was aired in 2007, roughly 10 years ago and during that time, my country was not as open and liberated as it is now. So, American drama series such as Gossip Girls with lots of unfamiliar practices and lifestyle were not particularly well-received, which also leads us to the second point. Since Gossip Girls contained several sensitive contents, not overly but still, it was not broadcast on TV or other online websites. However, things have changed considerably and nowadays, some youngsters have started to watch the show as it is highly recommended and really enjoy it.

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER Part 3

1. What is the difference between young people and old people's favorite TV drama? Why?

Youngsters and older people may have some different taste in TV drama, but not by much, I believe. Young adults are more into movies with lots of excitement or supernatural factors such as science-fiction, thriller, superhero or comedy. Some of the most popular TV drama series nowadays like Games of Thrones, The Walking Dead or Supernatural all fall under these categories. Meanwhile, older generations tend to value shows that have certain meanings or messages rather than visual effects themselves. Family-friendly dramas or sit-coms are some of their favorites. However, there are also exceptions.

2. Do you think TV dramas reflect what happens in the reality of society?

Personally, many TV series have been inspired from real-life materials, which proves to be an endless source for writers and movie makers. They are sometimes based on actual events and added some fictional factors for more excitement. Lots of social aspects have been depicted on screen like political issues, crimes, violence and so on. Despite being exaggerated sometimes (or not), these shows somehow reflect current situations in reality. TV dramas such as House of Cards, Suits and most recently, 13 Reasons Why are attracting more and more viewers for their compelling and real-life contents.

3. Do you think people will change their preference of TV dramas when getting older?

I suppose that is likely to happen since most things change over a course of time and so does our taste in TV programs. This may result from the changes in our perception of life and surroundings as we grown into maturity. For instance, when you were a kid, cartoons or other colorful and energetic TV shows such as Tom & Jerry and Teletubbies were your favorite even though you didn't understand them. However, during your teenage years, you preferred chick flicks like Twilight or Mean Girls since you adored irresistible vampires and happy-ending romance. If these are any signs, adulthood will surely change your appetite in TV series, too and shows with more complicated plots and characters like House of Cards or Scandal might suit your taste better.

4. What is the difference between foreign dramas and ones in your country?

I think there are a lot to mention since the differences are quite significant. The first thing is the plot. The social practices and situations between my country and the others are different in many ways, so, dramas reflect different issues since they are mostly based on reality. Besides, technology in film industry here is not as advanced as those in foreign films. Their visual or other special effects have reached another level and we still have a lot to catch up.

5. What is the influence of foreign show on people in your country?

It's quite true that whatever people watch will have some certain effects on them, which is why government has strict control over all the programs currently broadcasting, especially foreign ones. Due to significant differences in lifestyle and the way of thinking, national viewers might find it strange at first, however, constant exposure to international programs will get them familiarize with foreign practice, building cultural tolerance and understanding. Additionally, people can get a better view of the world since they are taken to different places, visiting beautiful destinations where they may never have a chance to travel to.

6. Somebody says soap opera doesn't come from real life, what do you think? Why?

I think soap operas, indeed, are fictional shows but just like any other TV series, they are inspired from real-life situations and deliberately exaggerated, sometimes too much. Unlike dramas, soup operas usually focus on family dramas and the longer they are, the more emotional and melodramatic they get. And even though soap operas portrait characters' day-to-day life, how these people resolve their problems is by no means typical. So, it is understandable that many refuse to acknowledge that soap opera comes from reality.

7. Do you think soap opera will have bad influence on children?

Children are highly impressionable beings and can easily pick up words and manners from surroundings; so, I believe they should be encouraged to watch programs appropriate for their age. Yet, soap operas, for example, may do more harm than good. The characters in these shows always seem to overanalyze and exaggerate things more than they should, even for a TV show. So, if children follow these programs, they could develop false attitudes and improper behaviors when dealing with similar situations in real life.

47. HISTORY

HISTORICAL EVENTS

Part 1

Do you like to learn about history?

Wow, I am into reading history, not only of our country, Vietnam but also other countries in the world. History is not only a subject to me, it is also a source of invaluable information about our origin as well as the victorious past of our ancestors.

Part 2

Describe a historical event that you like the most.

Honestly, every time I am asked about history, I am always eager to talk about Vietnam war, which ends in 1975 and one of the historical highlights of our country. Vietnam undergone hundreds of years under the colonization of foreign invaders and this is the last war before a new era of peace and independence is opened for us.

It is an unforgettable period of history for some reasons. First, it is the courageous fighting spirit of Vietnamese people. Our country was divided into Northern part and Southern part. Communication was almost impossible at that time and people across the country were living in poverty and destitute conditions. However, our soldiers still fought bravely with the support from ordinary people.

Second, this is remarkable because hardly anyone could think that we could win the war. When compared to such a well-armed country like America, it was hard to think that we could defeat them. However, with the determination of the whole nation, we have our own peace. April 30th, 1975 was the date that we gained independence from the invaders and from then on, we have held annual celebration to pay tribute to those who sacrificed for the country. I hope that Vietnamese people will never forget this important event of the nation.

Part 3

What can we learn from the events in history?

I think we can have many lessons from historical events. For example, if we read about the Great Depression in America from 1929 to 1933, we can know more about the economy and crisis in certain periods. In other cases, if we study war, there will be knowledge related to domination or weapons. However, above all, the most important lesson is that each historical event is either a mistake or a pride, we should look at them carefully to improve our strengths, to maintain the pride and not to let the mistakes occur again.

HISTORICAL FIGURES

Part 1

How did you learn history when you were young?

Actually, when I was a child, I only learned history through a text book but at that time I was not so interested in it because there were so many things that I had to remember. Then my grandfather took me to a bookstore to buy books in history and I have been interested in historical figures such as King Le Loi or Heroine Vo Thi Sau.

Part 2: Describe a historical figure that you find the most impressive.

If someone asks me about one historical figure that I like the most, it will definitely be President Ho Chi Minh. I am sure that President Ho is admired and loved not only by Vietnamese people but also residents in other countries around the world. He is a prominent leader and he led many resistances that defeated foreign invaders to bring peace and protect national sovereignty. President Ho is well known for leading a simple life and spending all his life fighting for the happiness of Vietnamese people and the independence of the nation. He was born into an impoverished but intellectual family in Nghe An province so he could understand the misery and poverty that were caused by war to Vietnamese people. So, at a very young age of early twenty, he decided to go to some foreign countries to find a way to save the country. He went through a lot of ups and downs but with his decisiveness and patriotism, he came back to Vietnam with innovative ideas to improve the policies as well as eliminate invaders.

President Ho had achieved a lot in his life of doing politics; however, he never thought for himself only, he helped other people till the end of his life. Now there are many memorials of President Ho in different countries for people to honor one of the greatest men in the world's history.

Part 3: Do you think historical museums should be opened for free?

Well, it is of great importance for people, especially young people to learn history of their own country. Historical museums, where valuable traditions are preserved and these are ideal places for people to cherish the past. I think it's better to reduce the entrance fee to historical museums because they need a certain amount of money to be operated. Local officers should have special offers for those when they come to museums as a way of encouraging people to learn history. Also, it is a good idea that more historical shows TV are produced to make history an important part in people's life.

48. LEADERSHIP

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER Part 2

Describe a leader or politician who you admire.

The leader I really like and admire is (…say the name of a politician or a leader you know about…) who had great contributions to make our country a better place. He was a mainstream politician for a long and was involved in active politics from his school life. He had great contribution in our freedom fight as well as in several other activities for the betterment of our nation. He lived from 1940 till 2000 and his death was a great loss for the nation.

He was an honest and brave politician which has become rare in present days. He never compromised with the evil power of the politics and foreign powers. He had risked his life several times and with his bravery, he had brought about some advantageous changes in the country. He was an idol for the nations and for his honesty and bravery he is a well-known figure in the world.

He was an active member of the (...say a political party name…) and never longed for power or fame. He could have easily gained a powerful position in the country but he had always led a simple and yet exemplary life.

I admire him for his unmatched contribution for the country and for the nation. We need many leaders like him and I regret the fact that we have only very few leaders like him in our country. He was an ideal leader who has put his personal benefits away while he thought for the benefits of the country and the nation.

Alternative Answer:

As a nation, we are proud to have many legendary and visionary leaders who had shaped our fortune and devoted their lives and time to build the country. Among those impressive leaders and politicians, I would pick (...say a famous leader's name...) as my most favourite leader whom I really admire and respect. He is such a popular and beloved leader that I have found that most of people like and admire him. He possesses a very high political position with really immense power and yet he has chosen to lead such an ordinary and poor life that it is possible only by a dedicated, honest, good hearted and completely honest leader. While he could have made a great fortune and could have exercised his power like many other politicians and leaders, he has chosen the honesty, integrity, responsibility and truth as his virtues.

The most appealing part about him is his honesty and fierceness for the truth and just. He doesn't fear anyone as long as it is to establish the just and right. Because of his invaluable contribution and dedication to many positive changes have been made in our country. I, like many others, like him because of his honesty, truthfulness, and fight for justice, dedication, patriotism, and benevolent attitude to the poor people. He is a rare politician in this era of corruption and selfishness. The world needs more leaders like him to make it a better place.

I am sure with his contribution our nation will progress further. The vision and leadership quality of this politician would inspire the young party members to contribute towards the betterment of the nation.

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER Part 3

1. What are the main qualities of being a good leader?

The definition of an ideal leader varies from people to people for good reasons, I suppose. I think a leader who is a true influencer and would leave great impacts on his people is someone who is a man of his word, knowledgeable and inspiring with a visionary mindset. It's an undeniable truth that neither an organization nor any person wants to be led by those who are pretentious and lack of capacity and vision. We all need those who take actions and are ahead of their time to guide us to a better place.

2. How do you see a leader now and in the future?

I personally don't think there would be much difference between leaders now and some time in the future for their core values are much likely to be the same. By this, I mean most true leaders tend to operate on similar principles such as innovation, integrity, positivity and so on. Not all these characteristics would be acquired or presented by all leaders but some of them would. So, in spite of living in different times, leaders would still be those with some particular admirable traits that are distinguishable.

3. Do you think there will be changes?

Well, changes are inevitable since they are the causes of any advancement. So, it's not surprising that there might be some alterations in leadership style and their effects. If we trace back history, the differences are noticeable. Many emperors or royal governors in ancient time ruled their kingdom by inflicting fear and pain on their people, which flatly contradicts how leaders conquer others' minds and hearts nowadays. Modern leaders no longer impose anything on anyone but inspire them with their vision and yearning for a better life.

4. How does leadership apply to children at school?

Leadership is not only adults' realm but people of all ages can practice it, including children. Most are not natural-born leaders, instead, they are likely to go through painstaking processes to attain certain skills since they were young. For example, kids with a leadership mindset probably stand out for their initiation, persistence and optimism. If they take part in group activities, potential leaders are usually those who take on team leader roles and ensoiastically enjoy the game as well as encourage others to do the same.

49. LIFE EXPERIENCE

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER Part 2

Q: Describe a time when you made a mistake

A: Honestly, I have lost count on how many times I have acted on impulse and caused troubles for not just me but also others. One time when I was in high school, I played truant from class for a week and finally got caught at an Internet store nearby playing Audition, the most popular online game among teenagers during that time.

It was an embarrassing and forgettable experience when you were escorted by the school's supervisor all the way from the Internet store to the principal's room. It was even worse when all of that happened in broad daylight when everyone could see and I could have sworn my face was as red as a lobster. That was not my first time absent from school but was the first time I got caught and my parents were involved. Fortunately, they didn't make a fuss about it in public but kept regard me with disappointment and suppressed anger in their eyes, which made me felt guilty and ashamed at the same time for my thoughtless action. The exchange with the principal was swift, yet serious when I got an after-school detention for a week and had to work on all of my assignments the week before.

After everything had been sought out at school, it was kind of tense on our way home. Unlike what I had expected, my parents didn't raise their voice or keep nagging me about my misconduct. On the contrary, we had a so-called "peer to peer" conversation in which we shared our concerns. After all, I learned my lesson the hard way and truly appreciated my parents' reaction when dealing with a teenage girl like me. Bottom line is our parents love us no matter what, so, I've tried ever since to give them less headache.

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER PART 3

1. What should teachers do when students make mistakes?

Teachers have their own methods when dealing with different types of students. Those who tends to be rebels often receive more severe punishment, while those who rarely make mistakes can easily get off the hook. Still, I think no matter how naughty or disobedient students might be, the way teachers communicate their messages or penalties are all that matter. Teenagers usually behave inappropriately to seek attention, to show off or to drag themselves out of boredom. The reasons are varied and that's what teachers should care about. Once they understand the source of the issue, they can have straightforward conversation with their students and have higher chances to get through their stubborn minds than just imposing punishment on them.

2. What can people learn from mistakes?

I have to say they can learn a lot from what they have done in the past. We can consider them mistakes, or simply a life lesson and in either way, it would be best to look at them with a positive attitude and an open mind. Learning process happens with trial and error so once you've made mistakes, whether it was work-related or relationship issues, you would acknowledge the cause and learn from it, more or less. For example, if you failed to meet the deadline of your previous project because of your procrastination, learn how to manage your time and try something out to kick start yourself any time you get demotivated or the like.

3. Do you often make mistakes?

There's no way I could ever say no since I am a true troublemaker. Making wrong decisions appears to be my talent, both in my professional and personal life. Yet, thanks to those wrongly made choices, I've learned to be less gullible and more efficient in most of the things I do now. There was a time when I would say "yes" to practically anything anyone told me to since they were my friends, my bosses or my colleagues. It could be sending an email for somebody, working a little late or on weekend or just hanging out with friends. I was so stressed out with all the requests I got that I barely had time for myself. Fortunately, I realized my mistake soon enough and learned how to say "no" to people and to prioritize on what I care and love doing.

4. Can mistakes help people to be more successful?

That's the truth which has been proven by so many successful people around the world. Mistakes and failures are meant to be obstacles that you need to overcome in order to have a taste of glory and those who can't walk through the fire line will forever stand still. "Fire proves gold, adversity proves men". Thomas Edison is a prime example. If he hadn't had a will to try no less than 10,000 times, he would never have come up with new solutions and finally invented a light bulb, a significant breakthrough in mankind history. So, don't afraid to be wrong if you truly want to advance.

5. How to avoid making mistakes?

Personally, it's nearly impossible to avoid making mistakes, especially in areas you don't familiarize with. However, there are some certain measures we can take to minimize possible consequences to an acceptable extent. First, do your own research. If you have no idea what you're dealing with, it will be like going to wars unarmed. As a result, find out as much information as you can about the issue. Second, ask the right person the right question. If someone in your friend circle has knowledge, or better yet, personal experience related to what you're working on, don't waste such a valuable source of reference. Lastly, just go with it. That may sound useless but after you're done with those previous steps, don't hesitate to jump into action. The faster you start to work on it, the less nervous you become.

50. INVENTOR & CREATIVITY

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER Part 2

Q: Describe a creative inventor or musician

A: I am going to talk about a brilliant inventor whom I have admired since I was a kid-Thomas Edison. His inventors have greatly influence on life around the world.

I learned the stories about Edison when I was a little girl in primary school. I came across a biography about him on the internet and there was a lot of interesting information. Edison was a very productive inventor holding more than 1,000 US patents under his name, as well as many patents in the United Kingdom, France, and Germany. Significantly, the number of Edison's patents as the widespread impact of his inventions: light bulbs and power utilities, recorder, and motion pictures all established major new industries worldwide.

One of his statements which really inspired and encouraged me is "Genius is one percent inspiration and ninety-nine percent perspiration". Working in science as my career, I always remember this quotation whenever I meet failure so that I have strength to keep moving forward.

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER PART 3

1. What creative activities did you like to do when you were young?

I love to DIY clothes for dolls and stuff animals. My mom is a tailor so I can use the waste materials for my imagination. I followed the catalogue books and used a tiny needle to sew dresses, skirts and blouses. This activity nurtured my dream of being a fashion designer when I grew up.

2. Why do people like to copy others' ideas these days?

Personally, I think it's a bit judgemental when it comes to copying others' ideas because a lot of people may come up with similar ideas or someone wants to improve based on the things that were already created. However, there are people who steal others' ideas on purpose because they are lazy but want to live in fame without working. The situation is even worse in developing countries since the government doesn't pay enough attention to intellectual property.

3. What's the best way to cultivate children's creativity?

First, I think parents should encourage children to ask questions. Children have a creative mind so asking questions in a way for them to discover environment surrounding them. Another way is making open-ended questions such as "Tell me why you think so?" or "What do you think about this?". You might be impressed by their answers. It is also necessary not to stop them make mistakes. Lessons and experience will be gained through mistakes. Letting them solve problems by themselves will teach them to think critically.

4. Do you think creativity can be learned?

Many people assume that creativity is a mysterious trait like charisma — you either have it or you don't. Scientifically, creativity is a renewable resource that we can tap into at any time and actually, it is a process that can be learned. It's not easy, of course. Generating fresh ideas is actually quite challenging because most people find it difficult to go beyond obvious and concrete solutions. True creativity requires the ability to break new ground, which requires significant effort.

5. Why does art help to nurture creativity?

Human beings are not machines. Our brains are not computer hard drives which you can just upload information. I believe humans are creative by nature and art education can help to nurture the creativity that lies within all of us. Art education offers us a break from the traditional way of rote memorization and also cultivates creativity and critical thinking.

51. SCHOOL SUBJECTS

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER Part 2

Describe some useful skills you learned in a math class from your primary /high school.

Well, math is not my strong suit as I'm quite absent-minded and easily forget numbers and figures every time I do a calculation. If I'm going to give you an account of a practical math skill I acquired from a class in my primary school, if I had to think of one, I'd say it would be mental calculation skill.

As part of the lesson about the multiplication table which is the basic knowledge that any math learners have to master mental calculation was then brought up in the class by my form teacher at that time and such a subject drew full attention from all students. I was instructed how to memorise the multiplication table, how to add, subtract, multiply or divide a sum in my head as well as some tricks to work out the problem in an effective and efficient way. I picked up this skill pretty quickly and was then capable of calculating without having to write down the numbers on the paper, all being done mentally very quickly.

This skill is particularly useful in daily activities such as going shopping in the market when you're supposed to figure out the exact amount of money to pay the seller, and this calculation skill helps me avoid being undercharged or overcharged, so I can manage my money more effectively. Or when my buddies and I have dinner in some restaurants, it would be of great help for me to check the bills to see if they are correct. After all, math is very important in our routine life.

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER Part 3

1. Can computers help US in math areas?

Without a shadow of a doubt any high-tech devices can help us with mathematical problems. It can be clearly seen at university when students are often required to calculate an large amount of data. Thanks to some softwares installed in the computer, university students can get through the calculations easily by simply inputting the data and then after some minutes of waiting, the problems are solved by the computer. The role of human participation in this process is to check whether the method used is correct, the computer does the calculations.

2. What is the first subject learned by children in childhood?

If I remember rightly, the very first subject that every child is taught is dictation. It's a module in the mother language subject. In this, kids are required to write down the words clearly and slowly pronounced by teachers without making grammar or spelling mistakes. This also trains children in calligraphy as they are told to write down beautifully the characters spoken by the teacher, which helps them develop neat handwriting and become more careful.

3. What methods can be applied to make math class more interesting?

I think I'd strongly recommend that teachers Relate the math lessons to real life issues! Say, how they should add or multiply numbers when they go shopping, or the homework should consist of more real-life problems, and less on theory so as to make kids more interested. Another approach worth considering is that schools should organize some field trips to certain places such as the market so that they can apply what they learn at school to real-life situations.

4. How do schools teach math in your country?

In my country, teachers often focus more on the teaching theory rather than focusing on practical use of the subjects! Students are required to cram huge amounts of formulas and theorems, which are only useful in solving theoretical problems. It's saddening to say that most people are weak when it comes to applying the knowledge learned in math into real-life issues.

5. What are the advantages and disadvantages of using a calculator?

A calculator is especially useful in working out a maths problem that involves big data, and if students calculate the sum manually, it may take half an hour. By simply inputting the figures into the calculator! the solution pops up right in front of you! However, the drawback of overreliance on calculators is that students may forget how to perform simple calculations! or become slow in mental calculations. So if children want to be sharp in their calculation, they should rely less on calculators for simple calculations.

6. When do kids in your country start to learn math?

Quite early, I'd have to say. Math is the foundation of many other subjects so the importance of teaching maths is recognized by governments worldwide. Kids in primary school start to learn the multiplication table and the methods to solve basic calculations. The process may start as early as when the kid reaches grade 1.

52. DECISIONS

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER Part 2

Describe an important skill which can't be learned at school

I'd like to talk about making presentations, which is a skill that I learned from my mentor who used to encourage me and give me good advice.

It was about 3 years ago, when I was studying in an English language center in order to improve my English. During that time, my classmates and I had many opportunities to make presentations in English under the guidance of Jimmy, who is a natural presenter and is really good at teaching students how to speak in front of an audience. At first, I ran into a few problems when speaking in front of my classmates, especially the first time because I had butterflies in my stomach, so I really struggled with speaking confidently in front of a lot of people, . However, I gradually overcame the difficulties and got used to it, and things became easier for me since then.

As for why this skill is essential, I believe that when studying at universities or working in companies, people have to speak publicly regularly in order to prove their ability in their study or their work. So, by watching YouTube videos or going to learning centers, learners can improve their presentation skills further.

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER Part 3

1. What qualities do you think are the most important for work?

When it comes to work, I think communication skills are the most important. This is because from the first time applicants meet interviewers when applying for a new job, those interviewers will look closely at how they behave. If the applicants can prove their communication skills, it is likely that they won't only communicate well with other coworkers but also with regular customers, which would allow them to learn more and gradually become a well-rounded employee.

2. What skills do you want to learn?

I guess that I'm really interested in technology-related skills because they seem to be essential in my job these days. Specifically, although I am working as a teacher, I need to use some technology like projectors and laptops regularly, for example, in order to teach students more effectively. This won't only help students to understand their lessons better but also allow me to plan my lessons more carefully.

3. Is it necessary for teenagers to learn to use computers?

Yes, I think children should learn how to use computers for two main reasons. One reason is that computer skills are mainly required in schools nowadays, which means that they need to use modern devices to search for information on the Internet in order to study as well as to do assignments and homework. For example, in our country, students are allowed to use tablets and smartphones to look up new English words when doing their homework. Another major reason is that computer skills also be useful in the long run, as most companies nowadays include these skills as a basic requirement, regardless of the job.

53. ENTERTAINMENT

Leisure Activities

PART 1. Do you like leisure activities?

Wow, definitely yes. Leisure activities, especially extracurricular ones are the a big part of my life. I feel like I can have my energy boosted when I can enjoy myself through leisure activities and escape from the hectic pace of life.

PART 2

Describe a leisure activity that you like to do.

Well, I have to work 5 days a week and I am very tired after each workday. Leisure pursuits are the things that help me recharge and I would like to choose badminton as my favorite regular activity.

Playing badminton helps me in different ways. The work is stressful, demanding and it has been a drain on my energy; so, I play that kind of sport as a way of clear my mind. When I am focused on playing it, I feel extremely relaxed. My co-player is also one of my colleagues so it is much easier for us to share things related to work and we feel more motivated when we can work and play the same sport together.

Also, playing badminton also is also good for my health as I have to move and run a lot, so improves my fitness and agility. As I work in an office, sitting for long periods is hard to avoid, which may lead to bone and joint problems. I sweat a lot after each set but this helps me remove sweat and help me feel refreshed. In short, I love badminton so much because this makes my physical as well as mental health better.

PART 3

Why is it important for people to have a leisure time activity?

Definitely. As you know, people are now busy with responsibilities at work and at home; so, having a leisure time activity will help them escape from the daily grind to enjoy some time for themselves. For example, if we attend a dance class after work, we can not only refresh our mind but also have a chance to improve social relationships.

SPORT

PART 1: What is the most popular sport in your country?

Wow, if I have to pick one, I would choose football because it is easy to gather a group to play this kind of sport. It is so common that if you travel to any area across our country, no matter urban or rural, you may easily see a group of boys or men playing this kind of team sport.

PART 2: Describe a match of any kind of sport that you will never forget. 

Well, I would like to talk about the final football match between U23 Vietnam and U23 Uzbekistan in Asian Football Championship in January, 2018.

You know, it is still spectacular and impressive although our team didn't win the cup for the following two reasons. First because the team contributed a strong performance in the important match under freezing weather. After miraculous victories over Iraq and Qatar, our team was expected to create another miracle and be the champion. The team played with all the strength and attempt they had despite the harsh weather.

Second, our team is the a symbol of national pride. As you know, thanks to excellent team spirit, the heavy snow couldn't prevent our boys from moving forward and fought courageously. They tried their best to bring the trophy to our country. Vietnamese people as well as other countries' residents really appreciated their effort throughout the tournament. Although we lost 1-2 by team Uzbekistan at the last minute and couldn't claim championship, we have still felt so proud of our "heroes" and now they are the new-generation idols of our country.

PART 3: Do you think there is any connection between sport and economy?

Honestly, there is a strong connection between the two, in which games can help boost tourism by attracting people from other countries to come to one country. Nothing can be more obvious than the case of Russia and World Cup 2018, which attracted a huge number of tourists from all over the world. Another example is Roger Federer, a well known tennis player who has achieved a number of prizes in his life and he has a number of fans who really want to travel to Switzerland to meet him. Thanks to a sports event or an athlete, a huge number of people may come to one country and so, the economy can benefit.

54. HANDWRITING

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER Part 3

1. Is handwriting still important?

I personally believe that handwriting is crucial for some reasons. It's a basic tool in many subjects such as doing homeworks, tests or taking notes. So poor handwriting skills or illegible writing can create trouble for students when they study. Handwriting is able to help students memorize everything better than typing. Besides, handwriting is closely connected to reading skills It promotes a child's visual memory, especially children who have difficulty reading. Mastering handwriting helps children recognize different letters quickly and help them to become good readers.

2. What are the disadvantages of handwriting?

I see that the first and foremost disadvantage of handwriting is time-consuming and tiring. When we write very long text, we'll feel pain in our fingers and it takes longer time to finish than typing. Besides, We can save all kinds of documents on computers as they have a lot of storage and can be protected with a password. The last thing is that handwriting is linked to learning to spell but spell check is a function that all computers have so handwriting doesn't help with this.

3. Is it possible to improve school student's handwriting once they have established a style?

Well, I do agree with that. In the short term it will almost certainly lead to a reduction in the student's writing speed. They should keep practicing of the new writing style and will become faster and more automatic.

4. Is being left-handed the cause of the problem?

I think that's not a problem. The majority of left-handers write as well as their right-handed peers. Many researches also show that lefties may have an advantage when it comes to creativity, imagination as their thinking is different from righties. So that's the reason why there are more and more left-handed people.

5. Are handwriting problems more common in boys?

Yes, I believe so. While girls are careful in everything, boys seem to be more careless. So, girls seem to master good handwriting earlier than boys but boys can catch up if they are given the right support.

6. What is the future of handwriting?

Well, I think that the future of handwriting varies from place to place. At big cities, technology like laptops and smartphones lets people take notes quickly and save documents safely. So people may not write longhand notes as often and handwriting may become less common. On the other hand, handwriting would still enjoy popularity as it helps children to write and learn how to spell. Besides, as the saying goes, handwriting can still be useful so I think handwriting would still be used in the future.

7. Do you think that handwriting expresses personality?

Yes, I do. I suppose that each person has their own writing style so the way they write can also say something about them. For instance, If someone writes quickly they may be impatient and dislike delays, while slower writers may be more patient. So having good handwriting can make a good impression and people should practice writing carefully.

55. NATURE

PART 1: Are you afraid of natural disasters? 

Wow, of course. Not only me but also many people on Earth are afraid of natural disasters. They are severe weather conditions that can cause a lot of damage to people and property in a large scale.

Part 2

PART 3: Describe a natural disaster/an extreme weather condition that you will never forget.

Well, I would like to talk about the "historical flood" that happened in Hanoi a decade ago, 2008. This must be the year that Hanoians can never forget.

It is memorable because the rain was so heavy and lasted for many days in a row, flooding many streets of Hanoi. The rain was considered the heaviest in the last 100 years, which caused a lot of damage. Precipitation reached a record high and almost all activities were paused to ensure the safety of both people and property.

According to statistics, many families even suffered from inundation as water rose and flooded their homes. Offices or schools had to make an emergency announcement to let their employees and students be at home to avoid any potential accidents that may be caused by the pouring rain. Daily life was badly disrupted and people had to wait until it stopped raining. The rain triggered inconvenience for people in different fields as a high death toll was recorded, traffic was chaotic or people faced a higher risk of disease. Luckily, after a few days, life began to come back to the way it was thanks to combined efforts of both local authority and many people of the city.

Part 3

Why the world has to suffer from natural disasters more than ever before?

Well, I think this is a worldwide issue that needs to be solved before it is too late. Obviously, there is global warming caused by human activities such as deforestation or overuse of natural resources. Also, the vehicle and factory emissions from vehicles or factories are one of the causes of ozone depletion. That is why more natural disasters are happening. Personally, I think both governments and citizens all over the world should act now before humankind has to suffer from more serious disasters in the future.

Part 2:

Describe the most beautiful natural scenery you have ever seen.

When I was a university student, I went to a village which was the living place of my best friend's grandfather's house. It was in a remote area and the natural scenery I saw there was the most beautiful natural scenery I have ever seen. It was in (...say the name of a place...) and the small river, hills, green fields, and blue sky came together to create something amazing. I saw it in one autumn evening when I went to explore the surroundings of the village. It was an amazing sight that I will never forget. I saw this scenic beauty in 2011 and it was mid-autumn season then.

My friend, I and one of my friend's cousin were present at that time and I heard from my friend that his village was a very beautiful place. I could not believe how much beautiful it was until I saw it with my own eyes.

We left for the river in the evening and I was amazed to notice the hill and the sloping road track beside it. The river was flowing gently and the vast paddy fields were all around us. I heard the sound of birds in the green trees and the sound was beautiful.

To me, this was a truly amazing feeling to witness a natural scenery that could exist only in our imagination. I have seen many rivers, hills and paddy fields but in my friend's village, they were arranged in such a way which looked like something from an artist's painting. The blue sky seemed very nearer to the horizon and the vast green all around us made me feel like I was in a fairy tale.

Tips for talking about this Cue Card Topic:

For this cue card topic, you are expected to talk about a natural scenery that you have seen and think is the most beautiful. First talk about the place and scenery. This can be a particular thing (like river, forest, hill, sky, rainbow, view from mountain, fountain, ocean etc.) or can be a place that has a really eye-catchy landscape. If this place/scenery has a name, say that and then mention where it is situated. Then mention when you saw that and how amazed you were witnessing this out-of-the-world scenery. Now give the details of the view/ scenery and mention when you saw it. If you had companies and relatives, mention who they were and why they went with you. Also, mention if this was a planned trip or a spontaneous visit of the scenery.

The final question is a tricky one and in your answer you have to convince the examiner why you think that was the most beautiful scenery you have ever seen. The debate for most beautiful scenery is ever ending and in fact, the most beautiful scenery to someone should be based on his/her personal experience. So emphasize your personal experience and feeling when you witnessed this scenery. Mention that you are yet to explore lots of beautiful places of the world and so far in your small experience this was the most beautiful scenery you have ever seen.

56. HOLIDAY

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER Part 1

Examiner: What kind of holiday do you like?
Miguel: I try to avoid tourist-heavy places... I like to get away from the crowds and prefer going somewhere away from the usual tourist spots... last year I had the amazing holiday… a two week wildlife safari in Kenya.
Examiner: What do you like to do when you're on holiday?
Anna: I enjoy visiting the local places of interest... I like to go sightseeing and always join guided tours as it's a chance to be shown around and take photographs... one of my hobbies.

Examiner: Do you have many tourists in your country?
Amy: Yes... we have a lot of holiday resorts along the coast that are popular with tourists... most people come on package tours and stay in one of the many hotels and self-catering apartments.

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER Part 2

Describe a beautiful place you once visited.

Sally: A few years ago I went on a long weekend to the Lake District in the UK... it's a very popular place to visit in the north of England... I went on my own and had a wonderful time... I stayed in a youth hostel and met some really nice people... but the most memorable thing about the holiday were the beautiful views... and lovely beautiful villages... it can get very busy with hordes of tourists so I decided to go out of season in the autumn... the weather was fantastic and the shops were full of local crafts... a really great holiday... it's certainly not the kind of short break for someone looking for a busy nightlife but if you want to relax in the middle of beautiful scenery I would certainly recommend a holiday to the Lake District.

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER Part 3

Examiner: What do you think has led to the growth in the tourism industry?
Miguel: It's much easier and affordable to travel now... nowadays you can get cheap charter-flights or all-in packages… to somewhere near or to a faraway destination.
Examiner: How do people tend to choose a destination?
Anna: The Internet is a great source of information and local travel agencies are still very popular... that's where I like to go to get travel brochures for the place I'm interested in.

Examiner: People sometimes say flying is the most glamorous form of travel. Do you agree?
Amy: I'm not so sure really... flying can be quite boring... queuing up at the check-in desk… going through passport control… sitting for ages in the departure lounge... then the flight itself can be quite uncomfortable... no... I'm not sure I agree.

57. FOOD

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER Part 1

Examiner: Do you like to cook?
Mandy: Not really no... most of the time I eat pre-made meals and takeout… that's one of the reasons I love visiting my mum... you can always guarantee lovely home-cooked food…
Examiner: What time do you usually eat dinner?
Michelle: We have our main meal at around 7.00... I'm usually starving hungry by then... in fact I often grab a bite to eat as soon as I get home from college... a sandwich perhaps... but not too much to spoil my appetite…

Examiner: Are there any types of food you don't like?
Lionel: No not really... I'm not a fussy eater at all... actually I eat like a horse… I do a lot of sport and work up quite an appetite…

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER Part 2

Describe a restaurant that you like to use.

Howard: OK... this is a nice topic to talk about... there's a restaurant just around the corner from where I live... it's an Italian restaurant so as you'd expect you can eat various pasta dishes and pizzas and I usually go there with my family for a big meal if we have anything to celebrate... it's quite an upscale restaurant... the kind of place you would take someone if you wanted to take them out for a nice meal... we usually order a 3-course meal… a light starter then a main dish... and I have a sweet tooth so I always look forward to the dessert... I usually order Tiramisu... it makes my mouth water just to think about it... I'm always totally full up by the end... why do I enjoy it there... well... it's not cheap... my parents always pay the bill and we couldn't afford to go there regularly so it's always a nice treat...

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER Part 3

Examiner: How can we encourage people to eat more healthily?
Anna: I think the best approach is to have everything in moderation... processed food is fine if you only eat it occasionally... but people should also be encouraged to eat a balanced diet… try to cook fresh ingredients at home a few times a week...
Examiner: Do you think people enjoy their food as much as they should?
Florrie: I don't know really... I suppose it's true that people will often eat a quick snack because they're bored not because they're dying of hunger… and often they just eat it quickly and don't enjoy it... so yes... perhaps we could take more time over our food...

Examiner: Do you think cooking is a pleasure or a chore for people who have busy lives?
Julie: Well... whether you follow a recipe or make something up as you go along … I think cooking is a very creative process... and cooking for other people is a particular pleasure... there's nothing more satisfying than seeing people you love eating something you've cooked yourself.

58. ACCOMMODATION

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER Part 1

Examiner: Do you live in a house or an apartment?
Callum: Actually I live on campus… in a single room in student dorms… all first year students are encouraged to do that as they're close to the university... next year I plan to move into student housing in town...

Examiner: Tell me about where you live.
Julia: I live with my parents in the suburbss of Madrid... we only moved in recently... in fact we had a housewarming party just a few weeks ago...

Examiner: What kind of accommodation do most people live in in your city?
Maria: In the city itself the majority of people live in apartment blocks… that's what surprised me about England... most people seem to live in townhouses with lovely back gardens…

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER Part 2

Describe a house or an apartment you would like to live in.

Paolo: I think most people when answering this question would say they'd like to live in a big detached house with spacious rooms… views of the countryside and so on... but actually my ideal home would be a lot different... I've always loved the idea of having a mobile home… a really expensive one with all the modern conveniences… so I could live wherever I wanted or at least have lots of holidays and be able to take all my home comforts with me whenever I travelled... I realise this would have to be a second home as I'd need a base... a permanent address… but the mobile home would be the accommodation I'd find it exciting to live in... I suppose once I settle down and have children I'll want to buy a home… I'll be like everyone else... saving up to make a down payment on a house or an apartment... I don't think my family would want to live in a mobile home... but I like to think I'll still keep that dream home in mind...

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER Part 3

Examiner: Is it better to own your own home or to rent?
Ana: I think both have their advantages... living in a rental isn't necessarily a bad thing... you don't have a huge debt like you do when you take out a mortgage but I suppose the property market offers you an investment for the future... I'm sure that's why most people prefer to own their own home…

Examiner: What options are available to young couples looking for accommodation in your country?
Toni: If they want to buy their own home it isn't easy for first-time homebuyers…mortgages are hard to get so most people live with their parents or in a rental… but that can also be very expensive... you often have to pay the rent upfront… and if the accommodation isn't fully furnished you have the expense of buying furniture...

Examiner: What are some of the pleasures involved in making a home for ourselves?
Suki: I suppose it starts with house-hunting… finding your ideal home... some people enjoy renovating an old property… giving an old property a fresh new look... others like making wherever they live feel like home with some home comforts…

59. PERSONALITY

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER Part 1

Examiner: How would you describe yourself?
Paula: Everyone tells me I take after my mom as I'm quite laid-back… I think I'm fun to be around but you should ask my friends if they agree...

Examiner: In which ways are you similar to your friends?
Manuel: I seem to be attracted to introverts… not people who are extremely shy but most of my friends are a little reserved… and I think that's what I'm like.

Examiner: Are you similar or different to your brother(s)/sister(s)?
Mira: I think my brother and I are very similar... I'd say we're fun-loving and tend to be a bit extroverted…my brother is certainly the life of the party… I'm not sure that applies to me...

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER Part 2

Describe a teacher you once had who you enjoyed being taught by.

Carolina: I'd like to describe my English teacher from school... Miss Thomas... this was a few years ago now and she was my teacher at a time when I was getting a little bored with being at school... unlike some of the other teachers Miss Thomas never lost her temper… she was very calm and easy-going… she was also very open-minded… we were able to ask her questions about lots of subjects that some other teachers would refuse to discuss which made us respect her even more... she had a great sense of humour too... she'd laugh at our jokes as well as making us laugh... and she would also go out of her way to help us with our work... she always put us first and often stayed around at the end of class to talk with anyone who needed help... apparently she was highly respected within her field but you would never know as she was the type that was very modest… she was very modest and modest… so yes... Miss Thomas was a teacher I have fond memories of...

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER Part 3

Examiner: Which personal qualities do you think we most want to pass on to our children?
Martin: I certainly would want my children to be confident and secure in themselves… I really believe that people who feel good about themselves are in a good position to face what life has to offer them... and I'd hope they wouldn't be self-centered… but remembered to think about others...

Examiner: Which characteristics do you think are the least appealing in a person?
Marianne: Well... people who are very closed-minded are difficult to get on with... it's nice when someone is open to other people's opinion and willing to think about their own views... and people who are fake can be a little irritating... relationships are built on trust and without honesty there's not much left...

Examiner: Which personality types do you think are less likely to suffer from stress or anxiety?
Sol: Probably people who are not easily affected by criticism… who don't let people or problems affect them too much... and if you are reasonable and fair you'll be less likely to overreact to situations or be short-tempered…

60. BUSINESS

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER Part 1

Examiner: Do you work or are you a student?
Hati: I run my own business actually... I have an online business selling cosmetics... I set up the business 5 years ago and I'm really enjoying working for myself…

Examiner: What is your ideal job?
Kaori: I don't think I'd enjoy working for a big company... I think I'd like to go it alone and be self-employed… I'm not sure what area of business it would be but I think I'd enjoy the process of drawing up a business plan and seeing if I could be successful...

Examiner: Is your town a nice place to live?
Monique: It's OK... the main problem we have is our local high street... it used to be a busy centre but lots of shops have gone bust… it must be very difficult to make a profit when you have huge supermarkets in the area and a lot haven't been able to survive with such intense competition…

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER Part 2

Describe a business you know that you admire.

Magda: Actually I discovered a business very recently that I like so much I'd like to do something similar in the future... it's a small niche business that runs courses in how to cook... especially bread... the owner uses his kitchen for the courses and went into business with a local community shop and sells a lot of the bread and cakes they make in the shop... I first got to hear about the business last year... my wife paid for me to do one of the baking courses and I got to know the owner during the training... it's a lifestyle business really... he doesn't have plans to take on employees or expand into new areas... he's happy earning a living doing the thing he loves... I really admire what he does and I'm sure a lot of people would love to do something similar... he has a web presence… in fact that's how we got to find out about his company... and he uses social media to make the company more visible… but he's the only person involved in running the business so he's in complete control of where the business goes... that's something that must make it really satisfying... as long as he's managing to keep the finances in order and the cash flow is stable I'm sure he must be very pleased with what he has achieved...

QUESTION & SAMPLE MODEL ANSWER Part 3

Examiner: Why do some people decide to set up their own business?
Marion: I suppose it's the idea of being in control of your own destiny... or of believing in a product or service idea you may have... plus it must be very exciting... launching products… winning contracts… and seeing your sales figures improving must be wonderful...

Examiner: What are some of the dangers involved in starting a business?
Hiro: Well... obviously you need to have a good idea... some people say you need to do market research beforehand so you know what the market wants... if you don't do this you could go under… and if it is a good idea the chances are someone else is doing the same thing so you could end up facing stiff competition…

Examiner: What are some of things you have to do when running your own business that might not appeal to everyone?
Katy: Personally I don't like being in debt so taking out a business loan wouldn't suit me at all... and I know a lot of companies do cold calling to try and bring in new customers… that's something I'd hate to do... and letting people go if the business gets into trouble... that would be horrible...
